Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-11-21-stupidest-ebay-auction-ever.md, before:

---
id: 38
title: Stupidest eBay Auction ever!
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-11-21 00:35:45Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-11-21 00:35:45Z
categories:
- Internet

---

Sure, there's been some stupid eBay auctions in the past, but this has got to be the stupidest eBay auction ever! Someone was trying to sell *contact information* of a person who has a PlayStation 3... Here's the description that was posted:

> You are bidding on the contact information for my friend who acquired a PS3 by waiting in line outside Best Buy for two days in advance. I was there with him the entire time, but already sold mine. He has in his posession a PS3, extra controller, extra charger, three games (Resistance, Madden, and Ridge Racer), and a 2 year product replacement plan. Keep in mind that you are not bidding on an actual system, but only the information where you might obtain one. You will be able to contact him and he is very willing to sell if the price is right. The unit is in the Atlanta, GA area and he would be willing to deliver in person if close by. PayPal is the only payment form accepted.

As soon as I saw this, I couldn't  believe that someone would be trying to sell contact information on eBay, and certainly didn't think that anyone would bid on it... <!--more-->
Strangely enough, bids came flying in, and the final bid was US$1,100.00 (about AU$1,430) :|. For reference, here's a full screenshot of the auction:  

[![Stupid eBay auction - 21/11/2006](http://www.daniel15.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/stupid-ebay.png)](http://www.daniel15.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/stupid-ebay.png){class=imagelink title="Stupid eBay auction - 21/11/2006"}

I hope the final bidder ([digitalbrew1](http://myworld.ebay.com.au/digitalbrew1/)) knew that he was only bidding on contact information. If he didn't check before buying, he's in for a suprise :P

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-11-21-stupidest-ebay-auction-ever.md, after:

---
id: 38
title: Stupidest eBay Auction ever!
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-11-21 00:35:45Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-11-21 00:35:45Z
categories:
- Internet

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2006/11/stupidest-ebay-auction-ever

---

Sure, there's been some stupid eBay auctions in the past, but this has got to be the stupidest eBay auction ever! Someone was trying to sell *contact information* of a person who has a PlayStation 3... Here's the description that was posted:

> You are bidding on the contact information for my friend who acquired a PS3 by waiting in line outside Best Buy for two days in advance. I was there with him the entire time, but already sold mine. He has in his posession a PS3, extra controller, extra charger, three games (Resistance, Madden, and Ridge Racer), and a 2 year product replacement plan. Keep in mind that you are not bidding on an actual system, but only the information where you might obtain one. You will be able to contact him and he is very willing to sell if the price is right. The unit is in the Atlanta, GA area and he would be willing to deliver in person if close by. PayPal is the only payment form accepted.

As soon as I saw this, I couldn't  believe that someone would be trying to sell contact information on eBay, and certainly didn't think that anyone would bid on it... <!--more-->
Strangely enough, bids came flying in, and the final bid was US$1,100.00 (about AU$1,430) :|. For reference, here's a full screenshot of the auction:  

[![Stupid eBay auction - 21/11/2006](http://www.daniel15.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/stupid-ebay.png)](http://www.daniel15.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/stupid-ebay.png){class=imagelink title="Stupid eBay auction - 21/11/2006"}

I hope the final bidder ([digitalbrew1](http://myworld.ebay.com.au/digitalbrew1/)) knew that he was only bidding on contact information. If he didn't check before buying, he's in for a suprise :P
