Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-03-15-welcome.md, before:

---
id: 3
title: Welcome!
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-03-15 03:21:40Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-03-15 03:21:40Z
categories:
- ICT Fellowship
- Other Stuff

---

Welcome to my blog! It's not much at the moment, but might grow in the future.

Well, I think I should say why I created this blog. The main reason why this blog was created was because I won an ICT Fellowship (you can read more about this on the [VITTA Website](http://www.vitta.org.au/awards/ict_fellowship.php):

> A key initiative proposed by the Taskforce is the Student ICT Fellowships. Fellowships of AU$ 1000 are offered annually to outstanding students making use ICT in Government schools. The Fellowships have been developed to provide students with the opportunity to work in a relevant ICT-related organisation and implement meaningful, real-life ICT projects, with the likes of graphic designers, system managers, web-masters and programmers acting as their mentors.

So basically, it's like work experience, except I get AU$1000 at the end... Quite nice  

So, anyway, I'll probably be writing some stuff in here relating to this. I'm considering using Wordpress instead of this MKPortal-based blog system, but I can't really be bothered installing at the moment. Besides, this system is simple  

Thanks for visiting  

--daniel15

NOTE: I've since transferred to WordPress :)

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-03-15-welcome.md, after:

---
id: 3
title: Welcome!
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-03-15 03:21:40Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-03-15 03:21:40Z
categories:
- ICT Fellowship
- Other Stuff

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2006/03/welcome

---

Welcome to my blog! It's not much at the moment, but might grow in the future.

Well, I think I should say why I created this blog. The main reason why this blog was created was because I won an ICT Fellowship (you can read more about this on the [VITTA Website](http://www.vitta.org.au/awards/ict_fellowship.php):

> A key initiative proposed by the Taskforce is the Student ICT Fellowships. Fellowships of AU$ 1000 are offered annually to outstanding students making use ICT in Government schools. The Fellowships have been developed to provide students with the opportunity to work in a relevant ICT-related organisation and implement meaningful, real-life ICT projects, with the likes of graphic designers, system managers, web-masters and programmers acting as their mentors.

So basically, it's like work experience, except I get AU$1000 at the end... Quite nice  

So, anyway, I'll probably be writing some stuff in here relating to this. I'm considering using Wordpress instead of this MKPortal-based blog system, but I can't really be bothered installing at the moment. Besides, this system is simple  

Thanks for visiting  

--daniel15

NOTE: I've since transferred to WordPress :)
