Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-11-06-amigaos-still-used.md, before:

---
id: 34
title: AmigaOS... Still used?
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-11-06 01:38:22Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-11-06 01:38:22Z
categories:
- Uncategorized

---

Well, I was looking at last month's statistics for Daniel15.com, and I happened to notice something interesting in the list of browsers people are using:  

![Browsers used to visit site - October 2006](http://www.daniel15.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/stats-2.PNG)  

It appears that more of my site's visitors are now using Firefox rather than Internet Explorer... Also, 11% of visitors are Opera users (if only there were more :P)

What was even more interesting was the list of operating systems people are using:  

![Operating Systems used to visit site - October 2006](http://www.daniel15.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/stats-1.PNG)  

Can you see it? Look towards the end of that list... 10 hits from a person using AmigaOS! I didn't even know that AmigaOS was still used :P  

I had an Amiga 2000... A long, long time ago, before I knew how to use a computer properly. I always used this painting program (but I can no longer remember what it was called).  

**Update:** OK, I remember now, it was called DPaint :P

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-11-06-amigaos-still-used.md, after:

---
id: 34
title: AmigaOS... Still used?
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-11-06 01:38:22Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-11-06 01:38:22Z
categories:
- Uncategorized

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2006/11/amigaos-still-used

---

Well, I was looking at last month's statistics for Daniel15.com, and I happened to notice something interesting in the list of browsers people are using:  

![Browsers used to visit site - October 2006](http://www.daniel15.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/stats-2.PNG)  

It appears that more of my site's visitors are now using Firefox rather than Internet Explorer... Also, 11% of visitors are Opera users (if only there were more :P)

What was even more interesting was the list of operating systems people are using:  

![Operating Systems used to visit site - October 2006](http://www.daniel15.com/blog/wp-content/uploads/2006/11/stats-1.PNG)  

Can you see it? Look towards the end of that list... 10 hits from a person using AmigaOS! I didn't even know that AmigaOS was still used :P  

I had an Amiga 2000... A long, long time ago, before I knew how to use a computer properly. I always used this painting program (but I can no longer remember what it was called).  

**Update:** OK, I remember now, it was called DPaint :P
