Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-12-08-restore-mysql-dump-using-php.md, before:

---
id: 45
title: Restore MySQL dump (backup) using PHP
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-12-08 17:03:28Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-12-08 17:03:28Z
categories:
- Linux
- PHP

---

The other day, I was looking for an easy way to restore a MySQL dump (or backup, whatever you like to call it) in PHP. I've previously used a segment of the code from [PHP MySQL Backup V 2.2](http://www.absoft-my.com/pondok/backup.php) for this, but it didn't seem to support FULLTEXT indicies that well. So, I searched around, but couldn't find anything. I even asked on the PHP IRC channel, and they suggested to use shell_exec to call mysql (unfortunately, I've disabled shell_exec for  security reasons). Looking closer, I noticed that this was actually quite easy to do. <!--more-->
Here's the code I wrote to restore a phpMyAdmin MySQL dump (not sure if it works with mysqldump dumps):

```php
< ?php
/*
 * Restore MySQL dump using PHP
 * (c) 2006 Daniel15
 * Last Update: 9th December 2006
 * Version: 0.2
 * Edited: Cleaned up the code a bit. 
 *
 * Please feel free to use any part of this, but please give me some credit :-)
 */
 
// Name of the file
$filename = 'test.sql';
// MySQL host
$mysql_host = 'localhost';
// MySQL username
$mysql_username = 'root';
// MySQL password
$mysql_password = '';
// Database name
$mysql_database = 'test';

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

// Connect to MySQL server
mysql_connect($mysql_host, $mysql_username, $mysql_password) or die('Error connecting to MySQL server: ' . mysql_error());
// Select database
mysql_select_db($mysql_database) or die('Error selecting MySQL database: ' . mysql_error());

// Temporary variable, used to store current query
$templine = '';
// Read in entire file
$lines = file($filename);
// Loop through each line
foreach ($lines as $line)
{
	// Skip it if it's a comment
	if (substr($line, 0, 2) == '--' || $line == '')
		continue;

	// Add this line to the current segment
	$templine .= $line;
	// If it has a semicolon at the end, it's the end of the query
	if (substr(trim($line), -1, 1) == ';')
	{
		// Perform the query
		mysql_query($templine) or print('Error performing query \'<strong>' . $templine . '\': ' . mysql_error() . '<br /><br />');
		// Reset temp variable to empty
		$templine = '';
	}
}

?>
```

See? How easy is that? :D

**Update:** This also works for mysqldump dumps :)

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-12-08-restore-mysql-dump-using-php.md, after:

---
id: 45
title: Restore MySQL dump (backup) using PHP
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-12-08 17:03:28Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-12-08 17:03:28Z
categories:
- Linux
- PHP

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2006/12/restore-mysql-dump-using-php

---

The other day, I was looking for an easy way to restore a MySQL dump (or backup, whatever you like to call it) in PHP. I've previously used a segment of the code from [PHP MySQL Backup V 2.2](http://www.absoft-my.com/pondok/backup.php) for this, but it didn't seem to support FULLTEXT indicies that well. So, I searched around, but couldn't find anything. I even asked on the PHP IRC channel, and they suggested to use shell_exec to call mysql (unfortunately, I've disabled shell_exec for  security reasons). Looking closer, I noticed that this was actually quite easy to do. <!--more-->
Here's the code I wrote to restore a phpMyAdmin MySQL dump (not sure if it works with mysqldump dumps):

```php
< ?php
/*
 * Restore MySQL dump using PHP
 * (c) 2006 Daniel15
 * Last Update: 9th December 2006
 * Version: 0.2
 * Edited: Cleaned up the code a bit. 
 *
 * Please feel free to use any part of this, but please give me some credit :-)
 */
 
// Name of the file
$filename = 'test.sql';
// MySQL host
$mysql_host = 'localhost';
// MySQL username
$mysql_username = 'root';
// MySQL password
$mysql_password = '';
// Database name
$mysql_database = 'test';

//////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////////

// Connect to MySQL server
mysql_connect($mysql_host, $mysql_username, $mysql_password) or die('Error connecting to MySQL server: ' . mysql_error());
// Select database
mysql_select_db($mysql_database) or die('Error selecting MySQL database: ' . mysql_error());

// Temporary variable, used to store current query
$templine = '';
// Read in entire file
$lines = file($filename);
// Loop through each line
foreach ($lines as $line)
{
	// Skip it if it's a comment
	if (substr($line, 0, 2) == '--' || $line == '')
		continue;

	// Add this line to the current segment
	$templine .= $line;
	// If it has a semicolon at the end, it's the end of the query
	if (substr(trim($line), -1, 1) == ';')
	{
		// Perform the query
		mysql_query($templine) or print('Error performing query \'<strong>' . $templine . '\': ' . mysql_error() . '<br /><br />');
		// Reset temp variable to empty
		$templine = '';
	}
}

?>
```

See? How easy is that? :D

**Update:** This also works for mysqldump dumps :)
