Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-06-29-server-broken.md, before:

---
id: 12
title: Server broken :(
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-06-29 04:51:19Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-06-29 04:51:19Z
categories:
- Errors
- Linux

---

Well, I was working on my Linux testing server, and it stopped working for some reason... I tried to restart, but the computer wouldn't even boot (even from a CD). Upon unplugging all the IDE devices, and only leaving a CD drive in (a different one, in case it was faulty for whatever reason), it still wouldn't boot :(. I guess I won't be using that for a while...

Anyways, I'm [buying a new server on eBay](http://cgi.ebay.com.au/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=260000403990), so it isn't that bad (all I need to do is wait for it to get shipped to me).

Old server:

* Celeron 300 MHz
* 4.3GB Quantum Fireball lct and 4.3GB Seagate hard drives
* 48X CD-ROM drive
* 192MB membory

New server:

* Pentium III 650 MHz
* 8.4 GB hard drive
* 48X CD-ROM drive
* 256MB membory

Don't say that it isn't that powerful... Linux makes *any computer* look powerful :D. Besides, it's only a server for testing stuff.

EDIT: Computer arrived today, 30th June 2006. That company on eBay was quick!

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-06-29-server-broken.md, after:

---
id: 12
title: Server broken :(
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-06-29 04:51:19Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-06-29 04:51:19Z
categories:
- Errors
- Linux

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2006/06/server-broken

---

Well, I was working on my Linux testing server, and it stopped working for some reason... I tried to restart, but the computer wouldn't even boot (even from a CD). Upon unplugging all the IDE devices, and only leaving a CD drive in (a different one, in case it was faulty for whatever reason), it still wouldn't boot :(. I guess I won't be using that for a while...

Anyways, I'm [buying a new server on eBay](http://cgi.ebay.com.au/ws/eBayISAPI.dll?ViewItem&item=260000403990), so it isn't that bad (all I need to do is wait for it to get shipped to me).

Old server:

* Celeron 300 MHz
* 4.3GB Quantum Fireball lct and 4.3GB Seagate hard drives
* 48X CD-ROM drive
* 192MB membory

New server:

* Pentium III 650 MHz
* 8.4 GB hard drive
* 48X CD-ROM drive
* 256MB membory

Don't say that it isn't that powerful... Linux makes *any computer* look powerful :D. Besides, it's only a server for testing stuff.

EDIT: Computer arrived today, 30th June 2006. That company on eBay was quick!
