Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-06-19-school-holidays-again.md, before:

---
id: 9
title: School Holidays Again
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-06-19 17:37:15Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-06-19 17:37:15Z
categories:
- Errors
- ICT Fellowship

---

Well, it's the holidays again, so I'm back doing my [ICT Fellowship](http://www.daniel15.com/blog/2006/03/15/welcome/). I'm currently doing work in Microsoft Access, and also creating icons in a program called 'Easy Icon Maker'.

Speaking of Access, I encountered a weird error... I was drafting some Visual Basic code, and needed to look up something in the help file (as I was using Access, which I don't have much experience in). I got this error:  

[![Free Image Hosting at www.ImageShack.us](http://img65.imageshack.us/img65/2821/62734msaccess13ke.th.jpg)](http://img65.imageshack.us/my.php?image=62734msaccess13ke.jpg)

Interestingly enough, I clicked the 'Help' button, and got this:  

[![Free Image Hosting at www.ImageShack.us](http://img101.imageshack.us/img101/7995/62740msaccess23ye.th.jpg)](http://img101.imageshack.us/my.php?image=62740msaccess23ye.jpg)

A bug, maybe? After all, the help article opened in the 'Windows Help Application', yet the article was saying that the application wasn't installed! :P

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-06-19-school-holidays-again.md, after:

---
id: 9
title: School Holidays Again
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-06-19 17:37:15Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-06-19 17:37:15Z
categories:
- Errors
- ICT Fellowship

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2006/06/school-holidays-again

---

Well, it's the holidays again, so I'm back doing my [ICT Fellowship](http://www.daniel15.com/blog/2006/03/15/welcome/). I'm currently doing work in Microsoft Access, and also creating icons in a program called 'Easy Icon Maker'.

Speaking of Access, I encountered a weird error... I was drafting some Visual Basic code, and needed to look up something in the help file (as I was using Access, which I don't have much experience in). I got this error:  

[![Free Image Hosting at www.ImageShack.us](http://img65.imageshack.us/img65/2821/62734msaccess13ke.th.jpg)](http://img65.imageshack.us/my.php?image=62734msaccess13ke.jpg)

Interestingly enough, I clicked the 'Help' button, and got this:  

[![Free Image Hosting at www.ImageShack.us](http://img101.imageshack.us/img101/7995/62740msaccess23ye.th.jpg)](http://img101.imageshack.us/my.php?image=62740msaccess23ye.jpg)

A bug, maybe? After all, the help article opened in the 'Windows Help Application', yet the article was saying that the application wasn't installed! :P
