Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-04-08-the-ict-fellowship.md, before:

---
id: 4
title: The ICT Fellowship
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-04-08 04:04:18Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-04-08 04:04:18Z
categories:
- ICT Fellowship

---

Well, I though I'd better write a post about how the ICT Fellowship went (which was about 3 weeks ago)

It was quite good actually, I learned a bit about Blender (a 3D application) as well as some things about software development (I already knew quite a lot though, as you would probably know). A few of the other things I learned were:

* During times when lots of visitors come to Melbourne (such as the [2006 Commonwealth Games](http://www.melbourne2006.com.au/)), trams are really crowded... On one of the days, I happened to miss the tram, and the next one after it was so crowded it wasn't funny :D
* It's impossible to get lost in Melbourne's CBD. Even though I don't go into the city much, I could basically guess where to walk to find a tram stop. Most of the people in the city are friendly and know where everything is (even though I've been in Melbourne my whole life, I don't go into the CBD often, and don't really know my way around)
* Something else (I forgot)...

I'll be going back there on the next school holidays, so I'll see what happens then

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-04-08-the-ict-fellowship.md, after:

---
id: 4
title: The ICT Fellowship
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-04-08 04:04:18Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-04-08 04:04:18Z
categories:
- ICT Fellowship

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2006/04/the-ict-fellowship

---

Well, I though I'd better write a post about how the ICT Fellowship went (which was about 3 weeks ago)

It was quite good actually, I learned a bit about Blender (a 3D application) as well as some things about software development (I already knew quite a lot though, as you would probably know). A few of the other things I learned were:

* During times when lots of visitors come to Melbourne (such as the [2006 Commonwealth Games](http://www.melbourne2006.com.au/)), trams are really crowded... On one of the days, I happened to miss the tram, and the next one after it was so crowded it wasn't funny :D
* It's impossible to get lost in Melbourne's CBD. Even though I don't go into the city much, I could basically guess where to walk to find a tram stop. Most of the people in the city are friendly and know where everything is (even though I've been in Melbourne my whole life, I don't go into the CBD often, and don't really know my way around)
* Something else (I forgot)...

I'll be going back there on the next school holidays, so I'll see what happens then
