Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-09-09-yay-laptop.md, before:

---
id: 18
title: Yay! Laptop!
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-09-09 20:52:40Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-09-09 20:52:40Z
categories:
- Computers
- ICT Fellowship
- Laptop

---

Well, last Friday I finally ordered my Dell laptop... I'm so happy :)

I ended up ordering an Inspiron 6400, with these specifications:

* Intel Core Duo 1.73 GHz
* 80 GB Hard Drive (free upgrade from 60 GB)
* 1 GB Memory (free upgrade from 512 MB)
* 15.4 inch XGA display with TrueLife - 1280x800
* 256 MB ATI Mobility Radeon X1400 Hypermemory
* 8X DVDRW
* 9-cell battery  

Plus:
* Dell Optical USB Mouse
* Free Belkin 'Wireless G' router
* Dell Large Backpack

And for comparison, here's my current desktop PC:

* Intel Pentium III 866 MHz
* 120 GB Hard Drive
* 384 MB Memory
* 17 inch BenQ LCD screen (FP71G+)
* Intel i810 Graphics Card (with 0 MB of onboard memory! :P)
* 52x32x52 LITEON CD-RW
* A4Tech Wireless Keyboard and Mouse

I think that this was an excellent offer (Dell's price was great). I'll finally be able to emulate Nintendo 64 games properly (unlike my current computer, with all the stupid graphics flaws :P)

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-09-09-yay-laptop.md, after:

---
id: 18
title: Yay! Laptop!
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-09-09 20:52:40Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-09-09 20:52:40Z
categories:
- Computers
- ICT Fellowship
- Laptop

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2006/09/yay-laptop

---

Well, last Friday I finally ordered my Dell laptop... I'm so happy :)

I ended up ordering an Inspiron 6400, with these specifications:

* Intel Core Duo 1.73 GHz
* 80 GB Hard Drive (free upgrade from 60 GB)
* 1 GB Memory (free upgrade from 512 MB)
* 15.4 inch XGA display with TrueLife - 1280x800
* 256 MB ATI Mobility Radeon X1400 Hypermemory
* 8X DVDRW
* 9-cell battery  

Plus:
* Dell Optical USB Mouse
* Free Belkin 'Wireless G' router
* Dell Large Backpack

And for comparison, here's my current desktop PC:

* Intel Pentium III 866 MHz
* 120 GB Hard Drive
* 384 MB Memory
* 17 inch BenQ LCD screen (FP71G+)
* Intel i810 Graphics Card (with 0 MB of onboard memory! :P)
* 52x32x52 LITEON CD-RW
* A4Tech Wireless Keyboard and Mouse

I think that this was an excellent offer (Dell's price was great). I'll finally be able to emulate Nintendo 64 games properly (unlike my current computer, with all the stupid graphics flaws :P)
