Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-06-24-ict-fellowship-end.md, before:

---
id: 11
title: ICT Fellowship end
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-06-24 18:45:13Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-06-24 18:45:13Z
categories:
- ICT Fellowship

---

Well, I've just finished my ICT Fellowship. I must say, it was a great thing for me to do; it gave me something to do over the holidays :). I made some macros in Excel (which was not all that difficult, because I used to work with macros when I was younger)

Anyways, I did learn a few things... Some of the things I learnt were:

* How to use Microsoft Access properly
* That you can get images from Google Images and resize them to 32x32 to make good looking icons :D
* The help in Microsoft Access's VBA doesn't function very well (see previous post)
* How to use Microsoft Excel macros to do stuff like turn an ugly-looking worksheet to a nice one... The macro recorder is also quite handy

It also gave me a good feel of what working in a workplace is like. Although I did have to spend 1 hour commuting every day, it was definately worth it :)

So, yeah... I'll be waiting for my cheque to arrive in the mail :D:D

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-06-24-ict-fellowship-end.md, after:

---
id: 11
title: ICT Fellowship end
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-06-24 18:45:13Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-06-24 18:45:13Z
categories:
- ICT Fellowship

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2006/06/ict-fellowship-end

---

Well, I've just finished my ICT Fellowship. I must say, it was a great thing for me to do; it gave me something to do over the holidays :). I made some macros in Excel (which was not all that difficult, because I used to work with macros when I was younger)

Anyways, I did learn a few things... Some of the things I learnt were:

* How to use Microsoft Access properly
* That you can get images from Google Images and resize them to 32x32 to make good looking icons :D
* The help in Microsoft Access's VBA doesn't function very well (see previous post)
* How to use Microsoft Excel macros to do stuff like turn an ugly-looking worksheet to a nice one... The macro recorder is also quite handy

It also gave me a good feel of what working in a workplace is like. Although I did have to spend 1 hour commuting every day, it was definately worth it :)

So, yeah... I'll be waiting for my cheque to arrive in the mail :D:D
