Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-06-02-exams-are-stupid.md, before:

---
id: 8
title: Exams are stupid...
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-06-02 00:39:58Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-06-02 00:39:58Z
categories:
- CWH Networks
- School
- Spam

---

Well, my mid-year exams are now all done. I think that exams are the stupidest thing ever... Whoever invented them should be shot... in the foot :P

...erm... Yeah, anyway..... For our maths exams (Specialist Maths, and Maths Methods), we have a 2-hour exam where we can use a calculator, and a 1-hour calculator-free exam.

These are the exams I did:

* **English** - Bah, the English exam was stupid. We needed to write three essays in two hours! Having said that, I got a B on that exam (and I thought I was going to fail it :P)
* **Physics** - Physics was alright (I quite like Physics). The exam was actually just questions that were cut and pasted from various revision books! I got an A+ on this exam.
* **Specialist Maths** - This was hard, it involved maths stuff such as partial fractions, Circle theorems, and other stuff. If there's one maths area I hate, it's circle theorems! Having said that, I got an A+ on this exam
* **Maths Methods** - This was *easy*! Maths Methods is incredibly easy compared to Specialist Maths. I got 97% in the calculator-active test (the highest in the class). This involved stuff like quadratics, cubics, quartics, solving equasions, etc, etc. The overall mark was an A+
* **Chemistry** - This was the one exam I was dreading (I'm not really that good at chemistry). Nevertheless, I got a B on this exam (which I'm quite happy with)

Yeah... That's all my exams...

In other news, someone recently spammed the CWH Networks forum:  

[![](http://img93.imageshack.us/img93/4966/spam8eg.th.png)](http://img93.imageshack.us/my.php?image=spam8eg.png)  

It took me the whole of 2 minutes to clean all that up. Seriously, when will these spammers learn? Geez! :D

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-06-02-exams-are-stupid.md, after:

---
id: 8
title: Exams are stupid...
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-06-02 00:39:58Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-06-02 00:39:58Z
categories:
- CWH Networks
- School
- Spam

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2006/06/exams-are-stupid

---

Well, my mid-year exams are now all done. I think that exams are the stupidest thing ever... Whoever invented them should be shot... in the foot :P

...erm... Yeah, anyway..... For our maths exams (Specialist Maths, and Maths Methods), we have a 2-hour exam where we can use a calculator, and a 1-hour calculator-free exam.

These are the exams I did:

* **English** - Bah, the English exam was stupid. We needed to write three essays in two hours! Having said that, I got a B on that exam (and I thought I was going to fail it :P)
* **Physics** - Physics was alright (I quite like Physics). The exam was actually just questions that were cut and pasted from various revision books! I got an A+ on this exam.
* **Specialist Maths** - This was hard, it involved maths stuff such as partial fractions, Circle theorems, and other stuff. If there's one maths area I hate, it's circle theorems! Having said that, I got an A+ on this exam
* **Maths Methods** - This was *easy*! Maths Methods is incredibly easy compared to Specialist Maths. I got 97% in the calculator-active test (the highest in the class). This involved stuff like quadratics, cubics, quartics, solving equasions, etc, etc. The overall mark was an A+
* **Chemistry** - This was the one exam I was dreading (I'm not really that good at chemistry). Nevertheless, I got a B on this exam (which I'm quite happy with)

Yeah... That's all my exams...

In other news, someone recently spammed the CWH Networks forum:  

[![](http://img93.imageshack.us/img93/4966/spam8eg.th.png)](http://img93.imageshack.us/my.php?image=spam8eg.png)  

It took me the whole of 2 minutes to clean all that up. Seriously, when will these spammers learn? Geez! :D
