Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-06-29-exploding-laptop-not-mine-p.md, before:

---
id: 13
title: Exploding Laptop (not mine :P)
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-06-29 20:34:44Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-06-29 20:34:44Z
categories:
- Uncategorized

---

I used to think Dell was just stupid, but now I think even less of them:

> AN INQUIRER READER attending a conference in Japan was sat just feet away from a laptop computer that suddenly exploded into flames, in what could have been a deadly accident. Gaston, our astonished reader reports: "The damn thing was on fire and produced several explosions for more than five minutes". Should you witness such an event, his advice is, "Don't try anything courageous/stupid, stay away, away, away!"
> 
> "For the record, this is a Dell machine," notes Gaston. "It is only a matter of time until such an incident breaks out on a plane," he suggests. Our witness managed to catch all the action in these amazing pictures. 
> 
> "Fire extinguishers leave a mess on your suit and belongings; pack your stuff (if you can) and leave, leave, leave!" he advises. 
> 
> We don't have any further details of the model of the computer in question. In light of the evidence, however, we'd suggest you avoid actually using a laptop on your lap. Ouch.

*(source: "The Inquirer", on the internet somewhere :P)*

Here, have a picture of the exploding Dell:  

[![](http://img427.imageshack.us/img427/7991/dellbanger12ls.th.jpg)](http://img427.imageshack.us/my.php?image=dellbanger12ls.jpg)

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2006-06-29-exploding-laptop-not-mine-p.md, after:

---
id: 13
title: Exploding Laptop (not mine :P)
published: true
publishedDate: 2006-06-29 20:34:44Z
lastModifiedDate: 2006-06-29 20:34:44Z
categories:
- Uncategorized

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2006/06/exploding-laptop-not-mine-p

---

I used to think Dell was just stupid, but now I think even less of them:

> AN INQUIRER READER attending a conference in Japan was sat just feet away from a laptop computer that suddenly exploded into flames, in what could have been a deadly accident. Gaston, our astonished reader reports: "The damn thing was on fire and produced several explosions for more than five minutes". Should you witness such an event, his advice is, "Don't try anything courageous/stupid, stay away, away, away!"
> 
> "For the record, this is a Dell machine," notes Gaston. "It is only a matter of time until such an incident breaks out on a plane," he suggests. Our witness managed to catch all the action in these amazing pictures. 
> 
> "Fire extinguishers leave a mess on your suit and belongings; pack your stuff (if you can) and leave, leave, leave!" he advises. 
> 
> We don't have any further details of the model of the computer in question. In light of the evidence, however, we'd suggest you avoid actually using a laptop on your lap. Ouch.

*(source: "The Inquirer", on the internet somewhere :P)*

Here, have a picture of the exploding Dell:  

[![](http://img427.imageshack.us/img427/7991/dellbanger12ls.th.jpg)](http://img427.imageshack.us/my.php?image=dellbanger12ls.jpg)
