Daniel15.Web/Posts/2007-11-02-survivor-english-exam-edition.md, before:

---
id: 64
title: 'Survivor: English Exam Edition'
published: true
publishedDate: 2007-11-02 03:05:42Z
lastModifiedDate: 2007-11-02 03:05:42Z
categories:
- School

---

Around 46,000 students did their English exam today, me being one of them. The English exam sucks; I'm so bad at writing essays :( . It was alright, but I screwed up a bit of it. Basically, we have to write four essays — Two text response essays (essays based on texts we read in class), a language analysis piece (analyse the ways language is used in some articles), and a persuasive/opinionative piece. I spent too long on the analysis and persuasive pieces (as these are what I'm good at). I completed one of the text response essays and then noticed I only had like 25 minutes or so to do the last one. So it was horribly rushed and probably quite incoherent :P

So yeah, I'm soooo glad that exam is now over; it was the one exam I was really dreading. The exams I have left are:

**Monday 5th November**  

3:00 PM–4:15 PM — Specialist Maths Exam 1 (non-calculator)

**Friday 9th November**  

9:00 AM–10:15 AM — Maths Methods Exam 1 (non-calculator)

**Monday 12th November**  

11:45 AM–2:00 PM — Maths Methods Exam 2 (calculator)

**Wednesday 14th November**  

11:45 AM–1:30 PM — Physics

**Thursday 15th November**  

9:00 AM–10:45 AM — Chemistry (ewwww :P )

**Friday 16th November**  

3:00 PM–5:15 PM — Specialist Maths Exam 2 (calculator)

So yeah, after that, **No more school!** On to University next year. I'm hoping that I get an ENTER score above 87, that way I'll get into Computer Science at Melbourne University :)

*Edit: Some people were asking about the title of this post. It was referring to my MSN Messenger display name, which I had set to "**It's Survivor: English Exam Edition. 46000 students, 4 hours, 3 essays. Who will survive?**" for a while :D *

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2007-11-02-survivor-english-exam-edition.md, after:

---
id: 64
title: 'Survivor: English Exam Edition'
published: true
publishedDate: 2007-11-02 03:05:42Z
lastModifiedDate: 2007-11-02 03:05:42Z
categories:
- School

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2007/11/survivor-english-exam-edition

---

Around 46,000 students did their English exam today, me being one of them. The English exam sucks; I'm so bad at writing essays :( . It was alright, but I screwed up a bit of it. Basically, we have to write four essays — Two text response essays (essays based on texts we read in class), a language analysis piece (analyse the ways language is used in some articles), and a persuasive/opinionative piece. I spent too long on the analysis and persuasive pieces (as these are what I'm good at). I completed one of the text response essays and then noticed I only had like 25 minutes or so to do the last one. So it was horribly rushed and probably quite incoherent :P

So yeah, I'm soooo glad that exam is now over; it was the one exam I was really dreading. The exams I have left are:

**Monday 5th November**  

3:00 PM–4:15 PM — Specialist Maths Exam 1 (non-calculator)

**Friday 9th November**  

9:00 AM–10:15 AM — Maths Methods Exam 1 (non-calculator)

**Monday 12th November**  

11:45 AM–2:00 PM — Maths Methods Exam 2 (calculator)

**Wednesday 14th November**  

11:45 AM–1:30 PM — Physics

**Thursday 15th November**  

9:00 AM–10:45 AM — Chemistry (ewwww :P )

**Friday 16th November**  

3:00 PM–5:15 PM — Specialist Maths Exam 2 (calculator)

So yeah, after that, **No more school!** On to University next year. I'm hoping that I get an ENTER score above 87, that way I'll get into Computer Science at Melbourne University :)

*Edit: Some people were asking about the title of this post. It was referring to my MSN Messenger display name, which I had set to "**It's Survivor: English Exam Edition. 46000 students, 4 hours, 3 essays. Who will survive?**" for a while :D *
