Daniel15.Web/Posts/2007-09-21-interesting-whois-results.md, before:

---
id: 59
title: Interesting WHOIS results
published: true
publishedDate: 2007-09-21 22:45:22Z
lastModifiedDate: 2007-09-21 22:45:22Z
categories:
- Calculators
- Internet

---

Recently, I was working on some DNS tools, including DNS lookup and WHOIS tools. Needing to test the WHOIS tool, I used google.com as a test domain (as I usually do). The WHOIS lookup returned some rather interesting results:  

Hostnames like "GOOGLE.COM.IS.HOSTED.ON.PROFITHOSTING.NET", "GOOGLE.COM.PLZ.GIVE.A.PR8.TO.AUDIOTRACKER.NET", GOOGLE.COM.ZOMBIED.AND.HACKED.BY.WWW.WEB-HACK.CO and " GOOGLE.COM.SUCKS.FIND.CRACKZ.WITH.SEARCH.GULLI.COM" are listed.  

<!--more-->

> Whois Server Version 2.0
> 
> Domain names in the .com and .net domains can now be registered  
> 
> with many different competing registrars. Go to http://www.internic.net  
> 
> for detailed information.
> 
>    **Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.ZZZZZ.GET.LAID.AT.WWW.SWINGINGCOMMUNITY.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 69.41.185.195  
> 
>    Registrar: INNERWISE, INC. D/B/A ITSYOURDOMAIN.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.itsyourdomain.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.itsyourdomain.com**
> **
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.ZOMBIED.AND.HACKED.BY.WWW.WEB-HACK.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 217.107.217.167  
> 
>    Registrar: ONLINENIC, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.35.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.OnlineNIC.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.WORDT.DOOR.VEEL.WHTERS.GEBRUIKT.SERVERTJE.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 62.41.27.144  
> 
>    Registrar: KEY-SYSTEMS GMBH  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.rrpproxy.net  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.key-systems.net
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.VN  
> 
>    Registrar: ONLINENIC, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.35.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.OnlineNIC.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.UA  
> 
>    Registrar: DIRECT INFORMATION PVT LTD D/B/A PUBLICDOMAINREGISTRY.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.PublicDomainRegistry.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.PublicDomainRegistry.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.TR  
> 
>    Registrar: DIRECT INFORMATION PVT LTD D/B/A PUBLICDOMAINREGISTRY.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.PublicDomainRegistry.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.PublicDomainRegistry.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.SUCKS.FIND.CRACKZ.WITH.SEARCH.GULLI.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 80.190.192.24  
> 
>    Registrar: KEY-SYSTEMS GMBH  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.rrpproxy.net  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.key-systems.net
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.SPROSIUYANDEKSA.RU  
> 
>    Registrar: MELBOURNE IT, LTD. D/B/A INTERNET NAMES WORLDWIDE  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.melbourneit.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.melbourneit.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.SERVES.PR0N.FOR.ALLIYAH.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 84.255.209.69  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.SA  
> 
>    Registrar: OMNIS NETWORK, LLC  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.omnis.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domains.omnis.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.PLZ.GIVE.A.PR8.TO.AUDIOTRACKER.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 213.251.184.30  
> 
>    Registrar: OVH  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.ovh.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.ovh.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.MX  
> 
>    Registrar: DIRECT INFORMATION PVT LTD D/B/A PUBLICDOMAINREGISTRY.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.PublicDomainRegistry.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.PublicDomainRegistry.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.IS.NOT.HOSTED.BY.ACTIVEDOMAINDNS.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 217.148.161.5  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.IS.HOSTED.ON.PROFITHOSTING.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 66.49.213.213  
> 
>    Registrar: COMPUTER SERVICES LANGENBACH GMBH DBA JOKER.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.joker.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.joker.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.IS.APPROVED.BY.NUMEA.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 213.228.0.43  
> 
>    Registrar: GANDI SAS  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.gandi.net  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.gandi.net
> 
> ****   Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.HAS.LESS.FREE.PORN.IN.ITS.SEARCH.ENGINE.THAN.SECZY.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 209.187.114.130  
> 
>    Registrar: INNERWISE, INC. D/B/A ITSYOURDOMAIN.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.itsyourdomain.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.itsyourdomain.com**
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.DO  
> 
>    Registrar: GODADDY.COM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.godaddy.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://registrar.godaddy.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.BR  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.BEYONDWHOIS.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 203.36.226.2  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.AU  
> 
>    Registrar: PLANETDOMAIN PTY LTD.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.planetdomain.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.planetdomain.com
> 
>    Domain Name: GOOGLE.COM  
> 
>    Registrar: MARKMONITOR INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.markmonitor.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.markmonitor.com  
> 
>    Name Server: NS1.GOOGLE.COM  
> 
>    Name Server: NS2.GOOGLE.COM  
> 
>    Name Server: NS3.GOOGLE.COM  
> 
>    Name Server: NS4.GOOGLE.COM  
> 
>    Status: clientDeleteProhibited  
> 
>    Status: clientTransferProhibited  
> 
>    Status: clientUpdateProhibited  
> 
>    Updated Date: 10-apr-2006  
> 
>    Creation Date: 15-sep-1997  
> 
>    Expiration Date: 14-sep-2011
> 
> [other stuff omitted]

It looks like Google's not the only site with strange WHOIS information... Microsoft has some as well:

> Whois Server Version 2.0
> 
> Domain names in the .com and .net domains can now be registered  
> 
> with many different competing registrars. Go to http://www.internic.net  
> 
> for detailed information.
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.ZZZZZZ.MORE.DETAILS.AT.WWW.BEYONDWHOIS.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 203.36.226.2  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.ZZZZZ.GET.LAID.AT.WWW.SWINGINGCOMMUNITY.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 69.41.185.194  
> 
>    Registrar: INNERWISE, INC. D/B/A ITSYOURDOMAIN.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.itsyourdomain.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.itsyourdomain.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.ZZZOMBIED.AND.HACKED.BY.WWW.WEB-HACK.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 217.107.217.167  
> 
>    Registrar: ONLINENIC, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.35.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.OnlineNIC.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.ZZZ.IS.0WNED.AND.HAX0RED.BY.SUB7.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 207.44.240.96  
> 
>    Registrar: INNERWISE, INC. D/B/A ITSYOURDOMAIN.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.itsyourdomain.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.itsyourdomain.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.WILL.LIVE.FOREVER.BECOUSE.UNIXSUCKS.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 185.3.4.7  
> 
>    Registrar: MELBOURNE IT, LTD. D/B/A INTERNET NAMES WORLDWIDE  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.melbourneit.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.melbourneit.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.WILL.BE.SLAPPED.IN.THE.FACE.BY.MY.BLUE.VEINED.SPANNER.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 216.127.80.46  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.WILL.BE.BEATEN.WITH.MY.SPANNER.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 216.127.80.46  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.WAREZ.AT.TOPLIST.GULLI.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 80.190.192.33  
> 
>    Registrar: KEY-SYSTEMS GMBH  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.rrpproxy.net  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.key-systems.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.TOTALLY.SUCKS.S3U.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 207.208.13.22  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.STINKT.NACH.WIESBADEN.VISIT.CALITEC.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 85.190.27.2  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.SMELLS.SIMPLECODES.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 207.44.234.34  
> 
>    Registrar: GODADDY.COM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.godaddy.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://registrar.godaddy.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.SHOULD.GIVE.UP.BECAUSE.LINUXISGOD.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 65.160.248.13  
> 
>    Registrar: GKG.NET, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.gkg.net  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.gkg.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.RAWKZ.MUH.WERLD.MENTALFLOSS.CA  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.OHMYGODITBURNS.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 216.158.63.6  
> 
>    Registrar: DOTSTER, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.dotster.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.dotster.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.MORE.INFO.AT.WWW.BEYONDWHOIS.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 203.36.226.2  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.LOVES.ME.KOSMAL.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 65.75.198.123  
> 
>    Registrar: GODADDY.COM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.godaddy.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://registrar.godaddy.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.LIVES.AT.SHAUNEWING.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 216.40.250.172  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.NOT.YEPPA.ORG  
> 
>    Registrar: OVH  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.ovh.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.ovh.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.NOT.HOSTED.BY.ACTIVEDOMAINDNS.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 217.148.161.5  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.NOT.AS.COOL.AS.SIMPLECODES.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 207.44.234.232  
> 
>    Registrar: GODADDY.COM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.godaddy.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://registrar.godaddy.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.IN.BED.WITH.CURTYV.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 216.55.187.193  
> 
>    Registrar: ABACUS AMERICA, INC. DBA NAMES4EVER  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.names4ever.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.names4ever.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.HOSTED.ON.PROFITHOSTING.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 66.49.213.213  
> 
>    Registrar: COMPUTER SERVICES LANGENBACH GMBH DBA JOKER.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.joker.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.joker.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.GOD.BECOUSE.UNIXSUCKS.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 161.16.56.24  
> 
>    Registrar: MELBOURNE IT, LTD. D/B/A INTERNET NAMES WORLDWIDE  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.melbourneit.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.melbourneit.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.A.STEAMING.HEAP.OF.FUCKING-BULLSHIT.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 63.99.165.11  
> 
>    Registrar: THE NAME IT CORPORATION DBA NAMESERVICES.NET  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.aitdomains.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.aitdomains.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.A.MESS.TIMPORTER.CO.UK  
> 
>    Registrar: MELBOURNE IT, LTD. D/B/A INTERNET NAMES WORLDWIDE  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.melbourneit.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.melbourneit.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.HOSTED.BY.CALITEC.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 85.190.27.3  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.HAS.ITS.OWN.CRACKLAB.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 209.26.95.44  
> 
>    Registrar: DOTSTER, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.dotster.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.dotster.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.HAS.A.PRESENT.COMING.FROM.HUGHESMISSILES.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 66.154.11.27  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.GOT.OWNED.BY.CALITEC.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 85.190.27.2  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.FILLS.ME.WITH.BELLIGERENCE.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 130.58.82.232  
> 
>    Registrar: CRONON AG BERLIN, NIEDERLASSUNG REGENSBURG  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tmagnic.net  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://nsi-robo.tmag.de
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.DRINKS.LISTERINE.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 66.33.206.206  
> 
>    Registrar: SPOT DOMAIN LLC DBA DOMAINSITE.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.domainsite.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.domainsite.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.CAN.GO.FUCK.ITSELF.AT.SECZY.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 209.187.114.147  
> 
>    Registrar: INNERWISE, INC. D/B/A ITSYOURDOMAIN.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.itsyourdomain.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.itsyourdomain.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.ARE.GODDAMN.PIGFUCKERS.NET.NS-NOT-IN-SERVICE.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 216.127.80.46  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.AND.MINDSUCK.BOTH.SUCK.HUGE.ONES.AT.EXEGETE.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 63.241.136.53  
> 
>    Registrar: DOTSTER, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.dotster.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.dotster.com
> 
>    Domain Name: MICROSOFT.COM  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net  
> 
>    Name Server: NS1.MSFT.NET  
> 
>    Name Server: NS2.MSFT.NET  
> 
>    Name Server: NS3.MSFT.NET  
> 
>    Name Server: NS4.MSFT.NET  
> 
>    Name Server: NS5.MSFT.NET  
> 
>    Status: clientDeleteProhibited  
> 
>    Status: clientTransferProhibited  
> 
>    Status: clientUpdateProhibited  
> 
>    Updated Date: 10-oct-2006  
> 
>    Creation Date: 02-may-1991  
> 
>    Expiration Date: 03-may-2014

Anyone know how this was done?

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2007-09-21-interesting-whois-results.md, after:

---
id: 59
title: Interesting WHOIS results
published: true
publishedDate: 2007-09-21 22:45:22Z
lastModifiedDate: 2007-09-21 22:45:22Z
categories:
- Calculators
- Internet

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2007/09/interesting-whois-results

---

Recently, I was working on some DNS tools, including DNS lookup and WHOIS tools. Needing to test the WHOIS tool, I used google.com as a test domain (as I usually do). The WHOIS lookup returned some rather interesting results:  

Hostnames like "GOOGLE.COM.IS.HOSTED.ON.PROFITHOSTING.NET", "GOOGLE.COM.PLZ.GIVE.A.PR8.TO.AUDIOTRACKER.NET", GOOGLE.COM.ZOMBIED.AND.HACKED.BY.WWW.WEB-HACK.CO and " GOOGLE.COM.SUCKS.FIND.CRACKZ.WITH.SEARCH.GULLI.COM" are listed.  

<!--more-->

> Whois Server Version 2.0
> 
> Domain names in the .com and .net domains can now be registered  
> 
> with many different competing registrars. Go to http://www.internic.net  
> 
> for detailed information.
> 
>    **Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.ZZZZZ.GET.LAID.AT.WWW.SWINGINGCOMMUNITY.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 69.41.185.195  
> 
>    Registrar: INNERWISE, INC. D/B/A ITSYOURDOMAIN.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.itsyourdomain.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.itsyourdomain.com**
> **
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.ZOMBIED.AND.HACKED.BY.WWW.WEB-HACK.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 217.107.217.167  
> 
>    Registrar: ONLINENIC, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.35.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.OnlineNIC.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.WORDT.DOOR.VEEL.WHTERS.GEBRUIKT.SERVERTJE.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 62.41.27.144  
> 
>    Registrar: KEY-SYSTEMS GMBH  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.rrpproxy.net  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.key-systems.net
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.VN  
> 
>    Registrar: ONLINENIC, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.35.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.OnlineNIC.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.UA  
> 
>    Registrar: DIRECT INFORMATION PVT LTD D/B/A PUBLICDOMAINREGISTRY.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.PublicDomainRegistry.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.PublicDomainRegistry.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.TR  
> 
>    Registrar: DIRECT INFORMATION PVT LTD D/B/A PUBLICDOMAINREGISTRY.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.PublicDomainRegistry.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.PublicDomainRegistry.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.SUCKS.FIND.CRACKZ.WITH.SEARCH.GULLI.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 80.190.192.24  
> 
>    Registrar: KEY-SYSTEMS GMBH  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.rrpproxy.net  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.key-systems.net
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.SPROSIUYANDEKSA.RU  
> 
>    Registrar: MELBOURNE IT, LTD. D/B/A INTERNET NAMES WORLDWIDE  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.melbourneit.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.melbourneit.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.SERVES.PR0N.FOR.ALLIYAH.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 84.255.209.69  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.SA  
> 
>    Registrar: OMNIS NETWORK, LLC  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.omnis.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domains.omnis.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.PLZ.GIVE.A.PR8.TO.AUDIOTRACKER.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 213.251.184.30  
> 
>    Registrar: OVH  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.ovh.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.ovh.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.MX  
> 
>    Registrar: DIRECT INFORMATION PVT LTD D/B/A PUBLICDOMAINREGISTRY.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.PublicDomainRegistry.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.PublicDomainRegistry.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.IS.NOT.HOSTED.BY.ACTIVEDOMAINDNS.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 217.148.161.5  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.IS.HOSTED.ON.PROFITHOSTING.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 66.49.213.213  
> 
>    Registrar: COMPUTER SERVICES LANGENBACH GMBH DBA JOKER.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.joker.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.joker.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.IS.APPROVED.BY.NUMEA.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 213.228.0.43  
> 
>    Registrar: GANDI SAS  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.gandi.net  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.gandi.net
> 
> ****   Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.HAS.LESS.FREE.PORN.IN.ITS.SEARCH.ENGINE.THAN.SECZY.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 209.187.114.130  
> 
>    Registrar: INNERWISE, INC. D/B/A ITSYOURDOMAIN.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.itsyourdomain.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.itsyourdomain.com**
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.DO  
> 
>    Registrar: GODADDY.COM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.godaddy.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://registrar.godaddy.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.BR  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.BEYONDWHOIS.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 203.36.226.2  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: GOOGLE.COM.AU  
> 
>    Registrar: PLANETDOMAIN PTY LTD.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.planetdomain.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.planetdomain.com
> 
>    Domain Name: GOOGLE.COM  
> 
>    Registrar: MARKMONITOR INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.markmonitor.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.markmonitor.com  
> 
>    Name Server: NS1.GOOGLE.COM  
> 
>    Name Server: NS2.GOOGLE.COM  
> 
>    Name Server: NS3.GOOGLE.COM  
> 
>    Name Server: NS4.GOOGLE.COM  
> 
>    Status: clientDeleteProhibited  
> 
>    Status: clientTransferProhibited  
> 
>    Status: clientUpdateProhibited  
> 
>    Updated Date: 10-apr-2006  
> 
>    Creation Date: 15-sep-1997  
> 
>    Expiration Date: 14-sep-2011
> 
> [other stuff omitted]

It looks like Google's not the only site with strange WHOIS information... Microsoft has some as well:

> Whois Server Version 2.0
> 
> Domain names in the .com and .net domains can now be registered  
> 
> with many different competing registrars. Go to http://www.internic.net  
> 
> for detailed information.
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.ZZZZZZ.MORE.DETAILS.AT.WWW.BEYONDWHOIS.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 203.36.226.2  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.ZZZZZ.GET.LAID.AT.WWW.SWINGINGCOMMUNITY.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 69.41.185.194  
> 
>    Registrar: INNERWISE, INC. D/B/A ITSYOURDOMAIN.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.itsyourdomain.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.itsyourdomain.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.ZZZOMBIED.AND.HACKED.BY.WWW.WEB-HACK.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 217.107.217.167  
> 
>    Registrar: ONLINENIC, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.35.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.OnlineNIC.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.ZZZ.IS.0WNED.AND.HAX0RED.BY.SUB7.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 207.44.240.96  
> 
>    Registrar: INNERWISE, INC. D/B/A ITSYOURDOMAIN.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.itsyourdomain.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.itsyourdomain.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.WILL.LIVE.FOREVER.BECOUSE.UNIXSUCKS.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 185.3.4.7  
> 
>    Registrar: MELBOURNE IT, LTD. D/B/A INTERNET NAMES WORLDWIDE  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.melbourneit.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.melbourneit.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.WILL.BE.SLAPPED.IN.THE.FACE.BY.MY.BLUE.VEINED.SPANNER.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 216.127.80.46  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.WILL.BE.BEATEN.WITH.MY.SPANNER.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 216.127.80.46  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.WAREZ.AT.TOPLIST.GULLI.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 80.190.192.33  
> 
>    Registrar: KEY-SYSTEMS GMBH  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.rrpproxy.net  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.key-systems.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.TOTALLY.SUCKS.S3U.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 207.208.13.22  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.STINKT.NACH.WIESBADEN.VISIT.CALITEC.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 85.190.27.2  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.SMELLS.SIMPLECODES.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 207.44.234.34  
> 
>    Registrar: GODADDY.COM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.godaddy.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://registrar.godaddy.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.SHOULD.GIVE.UP.BECAUSE.LINUXISGOD.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 65.160.248.13  
> 
>    Registrar: GKG.NET, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.gkg.net  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.gkg.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.RAWKZ.MUH.WERLD.MENTALFLOSS.CA  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.OHMYGODITBURNS.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 216.158.63.6  
> 
>    Registrar: DOTSTER, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.dotster.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.dotster.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.MORE.INFO.AT.WWW.BEYONDWHOIS.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 203.36.226.2  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.LOVES.ME.KOSMAL.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 65.75.198.123  
> 
>    Registrar: GODADDY.COM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.godaddy.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://registrar.godaddy.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.LIVES.AT.SHAUNEWING.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 216.40.250.172  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.NOT.YEPPA.ORG  
> 
>    Registrar: OVH  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.ovh.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.ovh.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.NOT.HOSTED.BY.ACTIVEDOMAINDNS.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 217.148.161.5  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.NOT.AS.COOL.AS.SIMPLECODES.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 207.44.234.232  
> 
>    Registrar: GODADDY.COM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.godaddy.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://registrar.godaddy.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.IN.BED.WITH.CURTYV.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 216.55.187.193  
> 
>    Registrar: ABACUS AMERICA, INC. DBA NAMES4EVER  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.names4ever.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.names4ever.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.HOSTED.ON.PROFITHOSTING.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 66.49.213.213  
> 
>    Registrar: COMPUTER SERVICES LANGENBACH GMBH DBA JOKER.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.joker.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.joker.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.GOD.BECOUSE.UNIXSUCKS.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 161.16.56.24  
> 
>    Registrar: MELBOURNE IT, LTD. D/B/A INTERNET NAMES WORLDWIDE  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.melbourneit.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.melbourneit.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.A.STEAMING.HEAP.OF.FUCKING-BULLSHIT.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 63.99.165.11  
> 
>    Registrar: THE NAME IT CORPORATION DBA NAMESERVICES.NET  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.aitdomains.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.aitdomains.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.IS.A.MESS.TIMPORTER.CO.UK  
> 
>    Registrar: MELBOURNE IT, LTD. D/B/A INTERNET NAMES WORLDWIDE  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.melbourneit.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.melbourneit.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.HOSTED.BY.CALITEC.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 85.190.27.3  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.HAS.ITS.OWN.CRACKLAB.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 209.26.95.44  
> 
>    Registrar: DOTSTER, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.dotster.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.dotster.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.HAS.A.PRESENT.COMING.FROM.HUGHESMISSILES.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 66.154.11.27  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.GOT.OWNED.BY.CALITEC.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 85.190.27.2  
> 
>    Registrar: ENOM, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.enom.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.enom.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.FILLS.ME.WITH.BELLIGERENCE.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 130.58.82.232  
> 
>    Registrar: CRONON AG BERLIN, NIEDERLASSUNG REGENSBURG  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tmagnic.net  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://nsi-robo.tmag.de
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.DRINKS.LISTERINE.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 66.33.206.206  
> 
>    Registrar: SPOT DOMAIN LLC DBA DOMAINSITE.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.domainsite.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.domainsite.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.CAN.GO.FUCK.ITSELF.AT.SECZY.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 209.187.114.147  
> 
>    Registrar: INNERWISE, INC. D/B/A ITSYOURDOMAIN.COM  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.itsyourdomain.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.itsyourdomain.com
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.ARE.GODDAMN.PIGFUCKERS.NET.NS-NOT-IN-SERVICE.COM  
> 
>    IP Address: 216.127.80.46  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net
> 
>    Server Name: MICROSOFT.COM.AND.MINDSUCK.BOTH.SUCK.HUGE.ONES.AT.EXEGETE.NET  
> 
>    IP Address: 63.241.136.53  
> 
>    Registrar: DOTSTER, INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.dotster.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://www.dotster.com
> 
>    Domain Name: MICROSOFT.COM  
> 
>    Registrar: TUCOWS INC.  
> 
>    Whois Server: whois.tucows.com  
> 
>    Referral URL: http://domainhelp.opensrs.net  
> 
>    Name Server: NS1.MSFT.NET  
> 
>    Name Server: NS2.MSFT.NET  
> 
>    Name Server: NS3.MSFT.NET  
> 
>    Name Server: NS4.MSFT.NET  
> 
>    Name Server: NS5.MSFT.NET  
> 
>    Status: clientDeleteProhibited  
> 
>    Status: clientTransferProhibited  
> 
>    Status: clientUpdateProhibited  
> 
>    Updated Date: 10-oct-2006  
> 
>    Creation Date: 02-may-1991  
> 
>    Expiration Date: 03-may-2014

Anyone know how this was done?
