Daniel15.Web/Posts/2007-05-01-brute-force-attacks-from-nokia.md, before:

---
id: 54
title: Brute-force attacks from Nokia
published: true
publishedDate: 2007-05-01 23:15:35Z
lastModifiedDate: 2007-05-01 23:15:35Z
categories:
- Internet
- Linux

---

I checked my email inbox this morning, and guess what I found? The firewall ([ConfigServer Security and Firewall](http://configserver.com/cp/csf.html)) on a server I help run blocked a brute-force attack from Nokia:

> Time:     Tue May  1 02:28:18 2007  
> 
> IP:       63.97.248.34 (**machine34.nokia.com**)  
> 
> Failures: 5 (sshd)  
> 
> Interval: 135 seconds  
> 
> Blocked:  Yes
> 
> Log entries:
> 
> May  1 02:28:08 blue sshd[9363]: Failed password for root from ::ffff:63.97.248.34 port 56057 ssh2  
> 
> May  1 07:28:08 blue sshd[9364]: Failed password for root from ::ffff:63.97.248.34 port 56057 ssh2  
> 
> May  1 02:28:11 blue sshd[9368]: Failed password for root from ::ffff:63.97.248.34 port 56436 ssh2  
> 
> May  1 07:28:11 blue sshd[9369]: Failed password for root from ::ffff:63.97.248.34 port 56436 ssh2  
> 
> May  1 02:28:13 blue sshd[9370]: Failed password for root from ::ffff:63.97.248.34 port 56591 ssh2

Just thought it was funny :P  

(oh yeah, and I will report it to them!)

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2007-05-01-brute-force-attacks-from-nokia.md, after:

---
id: 54
title: Brute-force attacks from Nokia
published: true
publishedDate: 2007-05-01 23:15:35Z
lastModifiedDate: 2007-05-01 23:15:35Z
categories:
- Internet
- Linux

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2007/05/brute-force-attacks-from-nokia

---

I checked my email inbox this morning, and guess what I found? The firewall ([ConfigServer Security and Firewall](http://configserver.com/cp/csf.html)) on a server I help run blocked a brute-force attack from Nokia:

> Time:     Tue May  1 02:28:18 2007  
> 
> IP:       63.97.248.34 (**machine34.nokia.com**)  
> 
> Failures: 5 (sshd)  
> 
> Interval: 135 seconds  
> 
> Blocked:  Yes
> 
> Log entries:
> 
> May  1 02:28:08 blue sshd[9363]: Failed password for root from ::ffff:63.97.248.34 port 56057 ssh2  
> 
> May  1 07:28:08 blue sshd[9364]: Failed password for root from ::ffff:63.97.248.34 port 56057 ssh2  
> 
> May  1 02:28:11 blue sshd[9368]: Failed password for root from ::ffff:63.97.248.34 port 56436 ssh2  
> 
> May  1 07:28:11 blue sshd[9369]: Failed password for root from ::ffff:63.97.248.34 port 56436 ssh2  
> 
> May  1 02:28:13 blue sshd[9370]: Failed password for root from ::ffff:63.97.248.34 port 56591 ssh2

Just thought it was funny :P  

(oh yeah, and I will report it to them!)
