Daniel15.Web/Posts/2008-12-10-dj-sl-vs-unleashed-project-if-you-dance-dj-hansiro-gina-gina-edit.md, before:

---
id: 79
title: DJ SL Vs. Unleashed Project - If You Dance (Dj Hansiro Gina Gina Edit)
published: true
publishedDate: 2008-12-10 05:17:40Z
lastModifiedDate: 2008-12-10 05:17:40Z
categories:
- Lyrics
- Music

---

Because I couldn't find the lyrics of this song anywhere, I typed it up myself. :P

Here's the song:  

*Edit: imeem is gone :(. Find the song on YouTube instead.*

## [Verse 1]
Come and look into my heart  

And you'll find me in your dreams  

And soon you'll be my gift of love  

It's just me and you  

Reaching through your every thought  

Is it always what it seems?  

But I will never leave your side  

It's just you and me

<!--more-->

## [Chorus]
Look into your heart and let your body go crazy  

Get up here and dance because the rhythm's all baby  

Look into your heart and let your body go crazy  

Dance with me tonight  

(x2)  

If you dance in my heart  

I will love you forever  

Come and dance with me tonight  

If you dance, I will try  

To love you forever  

Won't you dance with me tonight?

## [Verse 2]
Won't you reach into your soul  

Find out who you really are  

When you do I'll be your guide  

Make your dreams come true  

Follow me into a place  

Where we'll live forever more  

And I will never leave your sight  

It's just you and me

(repeat chorus)

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2008-12-10-dj-sl-vs-unleashed-project-if-you-dance-dj-hansiro-gina-gina-edit.md, after:

---
id: 79
title: DJ SL Vs. Unleashed Project - If You Dance (Dj Hansiro Gina Gina Edit)
published: true
publishedDate: 2008-12-10 05:17:40Z
lastModifiedDate: 2008-12-10 05:17:40Z
categories:
- Lyrics
- Music

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2008/12/dj-sl-vs-unleashed-project-if-you-dance-dj-hansiro-gina-gina-edit

---

Because I couldn't find the lyrics of this song anywhere, I typed it up myself. :P

Here's the song:  

*Edit: imeem is gone :(. Find the song on YouTube instead.*

## [Verse 1]
Come and look into my heart  

And you'll find me in your dreams  

And soon you'll be my gift of love  

It's just me and you  

Reaching through your every thought  

Is it always what it seems?  

But I will never leave your side  

It's just you and me

<!--more-->

## [Chorus]
Look into your heart and let your body go crazy  

Get up here and dance because the rhythm's all baby  

Look into your heart and let your body go crazy  

Dance with me tonight  

(x2)  

If you dance in my heart  

I will love you forever  

Come and dance with me tonight  

If you dance, I will try  

To love you forever  

Won't you dance with me tonight?

## [Verse 2]
Won't you reach into your soul  

Find out who you really are  

When you do I'll be your guide  

Make your dreams come true  

Follow me into a place  

Where we'll live forever more  

And I will never leave your sight  

It's just you and me

(repeat chorus)
