Daniel15.Web/Posts/2009-02-07-myspace-layout-that-looks-like-facebook.md, before:

---
id: 91
title: MySpace layout that looks like Facebook [Profile 2.0]
published: true
publishedDate: 2009-02-07 02:24:18Z
lastModifiedDate: 2009-02-07 02:24:18Z
categories:
- MySpace Layouts

---

[![MySpace Facebook layout screenshot](http://d15.biz/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/02/myspace-fb-layout-screenshot-224x300.png){title="MySpace Facebook layout screenshot" width=224 height=300 class="alignright size-medium wp-image-98"}](http://d15.biz/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/02/myspace-fb-layout-screenshot.png)  

Hey everyone,  

 I got bored today and thought it might be fun to make a MySpace profile layout that looks like Facebook. Considering I'm not a designer, I'm rather happy with how it turned out. There's a screenshot to the right, click on it to see a full-size version.  <!--One of the only minor problems I noticed is that the MySpace logo at the top-left is white, it doesn't look too good on the light background colour. Unfortunately, because of how MySpace put this on the page, I can't change the image. Also,-->
 I haven't tested in Internet Explorer, but that shouldn't be much of an issue, as most people are using better browsers... Right?

## Want to use it?
Please feel free to use this layout on your profile. The only thing I ask is that you keep the credit (Layout by Daniel15) on the page, and in the CSS code itself.

Here's what you need to do if you want to use this layout on your MySpace profile. You should probably already know how to use a MySpace Profile 2.0 layout, but here's a brief overview:

1. This layout is a **profile 2.0 layout**. If you haven't already, you'll have to upgrade to MySpace Profile 2.0. This can be done by clicking the "[Customise Profile](http://profileedit.myspace.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=pageeditor.profile)" link in the "Profile" dropdown menu.
2. Go to the "[Customise Profile](http://profileedit.myspace.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=pageeditor.profile)" page.
3. Click "*Select Theme*" and choose the blank one.
4. Click "*Change Layout*" and choose a page width of 960px, and the layout with two columns.
5. Click "*CSS*" and paste [the CSS code](http://d15.biz/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/02/facebook.css) into the box.
6. Click "*Change Layout*" again (or any other option. You need to leave the CSS tab and go to another one for it to save the CSS settings).
7. Click "*Publish*"

[Here is the CSS (click)](http://d15.biz/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/02/facebook.css)

If you don't like the header, and would prefer the default MySpace one, delete everything between **{! Begin header - Remove this section if you want the normal MySpace header !}** and **{! End header !}**

Note I'm giving **limited support** for this layout. I can try to help you with bugs in the layout itself, but can't help you with anything beyond that. Having said that, please feel free to leave a comment if you find any issues with the layout.

Enjoy!  

 — Daniel

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2009-02-07-myspace-layout-that-looks-like-facebook.md, after:

---
id: 91
title: MySpace layout that looks like Facebook [Profile 2.0]
published: true
publishedDate: 2009-02-07 02:24:18Z
lastModifiedDate: 2009-02-07 02:24:18Z
categories:
- MySpace Layouts

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2009/02/myspace-layout-that-looks-like-facebook

---

[![MySpace Facebook layout screenshot](http://d15.biz/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/02/myspace-fb-layout-screenshot-224x300.png){title="MySpace Facebook layout screenshot" width=224 height=300 class="alignright size-medium wp-image-98"}](http://d15.biz/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/02/myspace-fb-layout-screenshot.png)  

Hey everyone,  

 I got bored today and thought it might be fun to make a MySpace profile layout that looks like Facebook. Considering I'm not a designer, I'm rather happy with how it turned out. There's a screenshot to the right, click on it to see a full-size version.  <!--One of the only minor problems I noticed is that the MySpace logo at the top-left is white, it doesn't look too good on the light background colour. Unfortunately, because of how MySpace put this on the page, I can't change the image. Also,-->
 I haven't tested in Internet Explorer, but that shouldn't be much of an issue, as most people are using better browsers... Right?

## Want to use it?
Please feel free to use this layout on your profile. The only thing I ask is that you keep the credit (Layout by Daniel15) on the page, and in the CSS code itself.

Here's what you need to do if you want to use this layout on your MySpace profile. You should probably already know how to use a MySpace Profile 2.0 layout, but here's a brief overview:

1. This layout is a **profile 2.0 layout**. If you haven't already, you'll have to upgrade to MySpace Profile 2.0. This can be done by clicking the "[Customise Profile](http://profileedit.myspace.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=pageeditor.profile)" link in the "Profile" dropdown menu.
2. Go to the "[Customise Profile](http://profileedit.myspace.com/index.cfm?fuseaction=pageeditor.profile)" page.
3. Click "*Select Theme*" and choose the blank one.
4. Click "*Change Layout*" and choose a page width of 960px, and the layout with two columns.
5. Click "*CSS*" and paste [the CSS code](http://d15.biz/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/02/facebook.css) into the box.
6. Click "*Change Layout*" again (or any other option. You need to leave the CSS tab and go to another one for it to save the CSS settings).
7. Click "*Publish*"

[Here is the CSS (click)](http://d15.biz/blog/wp-content/uploads/2009/02/facebook.css)

If you don't like the header, and would prefer the default MySpace one, delete everything between **{! Begin header - Remove this section if you want the normal MySpace header !}** and **{! End header !}**

Note I'm giving **limited support** for this layout. I can try to help you with bugs in the layout itself, but can't help you with anything beyond that. Having said that, please feel free to leave a comment if you find any issues with the layout.

Enjoy!  

 — Daniel
