Daniel15.Web/Posts/2009-12-26-moved-domain.md, before:

---
id: 223
title: Moved domain
published: true
publishedDate: 2009-12-26 23:13:52Z
lastModifiedDate: 2009-12-26 23:13:52Z
categories:
- Website

---

Recently, I was looking through a few short domains, and decided to buy **dan.cx**. I think it's a pretty good domain, even if .cx is an odd TLD (it's the TLD for Christmas Island which is close to Australia, so I guess it's kinda related :P). It's better than my old one (d15.biz) in my opinion. "d15" doesn't have *too* much meaning (apart from people that know it means "Daniel15"), whereas "dan" is a lot better. I'll still be using the old domain for some things (it'll still be my main email domain, since there doesn't seem to be a way to change the domain of a Google Apps setup, which is what I'm using for my email). I also got **daniel.gd** last night, but I'm not sure where I'll use that ("daniel good?" I dunno). It currently just redirects to dan.cx. I should probably stop buying domains. But, I bought these instead of renewing a few domains. I don't really work on MySpaceTools any more, so I'm just letting the domain expire. :P

I guess you've probably noticed, but I've been doing some updates to my site (finally!). I rewrote it to use my own very simple CMS  (instead of a static HTML file), and added a ["Projects" page](http://dan.cx/projects.htm) showing some of the bigger projects I've worked on in the past. I'm considering switching the site to be fully WordPress (instead of just the blog), but I haven't done that just yet. Not sure if I will, I'm happy with the simple CMS for now. I thought WordPress might be easier for site management though. And the main part of the site is the blog, which might be better in the root. I dunno.

A proper blog post will come eventually. One day. :)

Until next time,  

— Daniel

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2009-12-26-moved-domain.md, after:

---
id: 223
title: Moved domain
published: true
publishedDate: 2009-12-26 23:13:52Z
lastModifiedDate: 2009-12-26 23:13:52Z
categories:
- Website

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2009/12/moved-domain

---

Recently, I was looking through a few short domains, and decided to buy **dan.cx**. I think it's a pretty good domain, even if .cx is an odd TLD (it's the TLD for Christmas Island which is close to Australia, so I guess it's kinda related :P). It's better than my old one (d15.biz) in my opinion. "d15" doesn't have *too* much meaning (apart from people that know it means "Daniel15"), whereas "dan" is a lot better. I'll still be using the old domain for some things (it'll still be my main email domain, since there doesn't seem to be a way to change the domain of a Google Apps setup, which is what I'm using for my email). I also got **daniel.gd** last night, but I'm not sure where I'll use that ("daniel good?" I dunno). It currently just redirects to dan.cx. I should probably stop buying domains. But, I bought these instead of renewing a few domains. I don't really work on MySpaceTools any more, so I'm just letting the domain expire. :P

I guess you've probably noticed, but I've been doing some updates to my site (finally!). I rewrote it to use my own very simple CMS  (instead of a static HTML file), and added a ["Projects" page](http://dan.cx/projects.htm) showing some of the bigger projects I've worked on in the past. I'm considering switching the site to be fully WordPress (instead of just the blog), but I haven't done that just yet. Not sure if I will, I'm happy with the simple CMS for now. I thought WordPress might be easier for site management though. And the main part of the site is the blog, which might be better in the root. I dunno.

A proper blog post will come eventually. One day. :)

Until next time,  

— Daniel
