Daniel15.Web/Posts/2009-05-09-this-will-be-song.md, before:

---
id: 199
title: Pascal feat. Karen Parry - This Will Be (The Best Days Of Our Lives)
published: true
publishedDate: 2009-05-09 03:44:48Z
lastModifiedDate: 2009-05-09 03:44:48Z
categories:
- Lyrics
- Music

---

Another song that I liked but couldn't find the lyrics to... Actually this one was from a mix, I've clipped it out and so I could have it as a separate MP3 file.

As for normal blogging, I'll resume eventually. Once I get university assignments and such sorted out, I guess.

Here's the song:  

![youtube.com](http://www.youtube.com/v/HXx9uVGPWCg?fs=1&hl=en_US)

## [Verse 1]
Listen to me, and I will tell you,  

Of the way I like to live,  

Take each day as if it's my last,  

And every moment is my final breath  

I know it sounds as if I'm crazy,  

But I guess I will survive,  

And everyday I take a chance,  

Is another that I come alive

<!--more-->

## [Chorus]
This will be (this will be)  

The best days of our lives  

This will be (this will be)  

Insanity run wild  

Follow me (follow me)  

To another level I have found  

And you shall find,  

we can reach for higher ground

## [Verse 2]
Today is the first time I can feel that,  

This is where our journey starts  

And every mountain that we cross  

will be so different than the last  

And just believe me when I tell you,  

Every step that we will take  

To the next illusive place  

It's gonna take your breath away

(repeat chorus)

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2009-05-09-this-will-be-song.md, after:

---
id: 199
title: Pascal feat. Karen Parry - This Will Be (The Best Days Of Our Lives)
published: true
publishedDate: 2009-05-09 03:44:48Z
lastModifiedDate: 2009-05-09 03:44:48Z
categories:
- Lyrics
- Music

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2009/05/this-will-be-song

---

Another song that I liked but couldn't find the lyrics to... Actually this one was from a mix, I've clipped it out and so I could have it as a separate MP3 file.

As for normal blogging, I'll resume eventually. Once I get university assignments and such sorted out, I guess.

Here's the song:  

![youtube.com](http://www.youtube.com/v/HXx9uVGPWCg?fs=1&hl=en_US)

## [Verse 1]
Listen to me, and I will tell you,  

Of the way I like to live,  

Take each day as if it's my last,  

And every moment is my final breath  

I know it sounds as if I'm crazy,  

But I guess I will survive,  

And everyday I take a chance,  

Is another that I come alive

<!--more-->

## [Chorus]
This will be (this will be)  

The best days of our lives  

This will be (this will be)  

Insanity run wild  

Follow me (follow me)  

To another level I have found  

And you shall find,  

we can reach for higher ground

## [Verse 2]
Today is the first time I can feel that,  

This is where our journey starts  

And every mountain that we cross  

will be so different than the last  

And just believe me when I tell you,  

Every step that we will take  

To the next illusive place  

It's gonna take your breath away

(repeat chorus)
