Daniel15.Web/Posts/2010-04-24-favourite-web-development-blogs.md, before:

---
id: 257
title: My favourite web development blogs
published: true
publishedDate: 2010-04-24 03:04:35Z
lastModifiedDate: 2010-04-24 03:04:35Z
categories:
- Web Development
- JavaScript

---

I thought I'd give some link love to some of the lesser-known web development blogs I enjoy reading. This post was prompted by a [post about my site at GiveUpInternet.com](http://giveupinternet.com/2010/04/22/daniels-dan-cx-a-nice-web-development-blog/). I didn't expect the link (as I don't think my blog is very good for web development stuff), but I do appreciate it heaps! This blog hasn't really focused too much on web development, perhaps I should post more web development articles :)

* [GiveUpInternet.com](http://giveupinternet.com/) — As it says on the site, "*Give Up Internet is a Humor Blog for Internet People and Developers.*" While it's technically not a web development blog, I love the posts on this site. Unlike a lot of other "humour" sites that post stupid things a lot of the time, it's got actual funny posts. It's one of the only humour blogs that I'm subscribed to.
* [The CSS Ninja](http://www.thecssninja.com/) by Ryan Seddon— This is a great blog about nice little tricks that can be done in CSS. One of its focuses is doing things that previously required JavaScript, in pure CSS (no JavaScript whatsoever). This includes [cross-browser CSS-styled checkboxes](http://www.thecssninja.com/css/custom-inputs-using-css), [a lightbox in pure CSS](http://www.thecssninja.com/css/futurebox3), and [an easy way to preload images using CSS2](http://www.thecssninja.com/css/even-better-image-preloading-with-css2).
* [David Walsh's blog](http://davidwalsh.name/) — David is one of the core MooTools developers, and as such, he blogs mainly about JavaScript, and occasionally some PHP snippets. While, in my opinon, his posts on PHP are often messy :P, his posts on JavaScript are excellent.
* [AdequatelyGood.com](http://www.adequatelygood.com/) by Ben Cherry — If you're interested in JavaScript (especially the nitty gritty of its internals), this is by far the best blog on the topic that I've seen. Ben has written detailed articles on a lot of unique features of JavaScript, including [scoping and "hoisting"](http://www.adequatelygood.com/2010/2/JavaScript-Scoping-and-Hoisting), and [how it handles object to primitive conversions](http://www.adequatelygood.com/2010/3/Object-to-Primitive-Conversions-in-JavaScript). 
* [Hallvord R. M. Steen's blog](http://my.opera.com/hallvors/blog/) and the [Opera sitepatching blog](http://my.opera.com/sitepatching/blog/) — Hallvord is a developer for Opera Software. His blog covers the state of the web as it unfortunately is at the moment - Broken browser sniffer scripts, standards violations, and just general scripting stupidities. Things are definitely improving, but there's a LOT of broken scripts out there. Opera has a file called "browser.js" that contains patches to make these broken sites work correctly in Opera. Hallford's blog (and the Opera site patching blog) detail the things that Opera does to patch these broken sites. There have been some very interesting posts, including [the horrible XML and XSLT on the Israeli rail website](http://my.opera.com/hallvors/blog/2008/09/17/how-to-cook-tag-soup-with-xslt), [how Google Docs used to print documents](http://my.opera.com/hallvors/blog/2008/11/12/how-google-docs-prints), and many others.

That's all for now... I might eventually write another blog post like this. Or a proper blog post :P :)

Until next time,  

 — Daniel

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2010-04-24-favourite-web-development-blogs.md, after:

---
id: 257
title: My favourite web development blogs
published: true
publishedDate: 2010-04-24 03:04:35Z
lastModifiedDate: 2010-04-24 03:04:35Z
categories:
- Web Development
- JavaScript

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2010/04/favourite-web-development-blogs

---

I thought I'd give some link love to some of the lesser-known web development blogs I enjoy reading. This post was prompted by a [post about my site at GiveUpInternet.com](http://giveupinternet.com/2010/04/22/daniels-dan-cx-a-nice-web-development-blog/). I didn't expect the link (as I don't think my blog is very good for web development stuff), but I do appreciate it heaps! This blog hasn't really focused too much on web development, perhaps I should post more web development articles :)

* [GiveUpInternet.com](http://giveupinternet.com/) — As it says on the site, "*Give Up Internet is a Humor Blog for Internet People and Developers.*" While it's technically not a web development blog, I love the posts on this site. Unlike a lot of other "humour" sites that post stupid things a lot of the time, it's got actual funny posts. It's one of the only humour blogs that I'm subscribed to.
* [The CSS Ninja](http://www.thecssninja.com/) by Ryan Seddon— This is a great blog about nice little tricks that can be done in CSS. One of its focuses is doing things that previously required JavaScript, in pure CSS (no JavaScript whatsoever). This includes [cross-browser CSS-styled checkboxes](http://www.thecssninja.com/css/custom-inputs-using-css), [a lightbox in pure CSS](http://www.thecssninja.com/css/futurebox3), and [an easy way to preload images using CSS2](http://www.thecssninja.com/css/even-better-image-preloading-with-css2).
* [David Walsh's blog](http://davidwalsh.name/) — David is one of the core MooTools developers, and as such, he blogs mainly about JavaScript, and occasionally some PHP snippets. While, in my opinon, his posts on PHP are often messy :P, his posts on JavaScript are excellent.
* [AdequatelyGood.com](http://www.adequatelygood.com/) by Ben Cherry — If you're interested in JavaScript (especially the nitty gritty of its internals), this is by far the best blog on the topic that I've seen. Ben has written detailed articles on a lot of unique features of JavaScript, including [scoping and "hoisting"](http://www.adequatelygood.com/2010/2/JavaScript-Scoping-and-Hoisting), and [how it handles object to primitive conversions](http://www.adequatelygood.com/2010/3/Object-to-Primitive-Conversions-in-JavaScript). 
* [Hallvord R. M. Steen's blog](http://my.opera.com/hallvors/blog/) and the [Opera sitepatching blog](http://my.opera.com/sitepatching/blog/) — Hallvord is a developer for Opera Software. His blog covers the state of the web as it unfortunately is at the moment - Broken browser sniffer scripts, standards violations, and just general scripting stupidities. Things are definitely improving, but there's a LOT of broken scripts out there. Opera has a file called "browser.js" that contains patches to make these broken sites work correctly in Opera. Hallford's blog (and the Opera site patching blog) detail the things that Opera does to patch these broken sites. There have been some very interesting posts, including [the horrible XML and XSLT on the Israeli rail website](http://my.opera.com/hallvors/blog/2008/09/17/how-to-cook-tag-soup-with-xslt), [how Google Docs used to print documents](http://my.opera.com/hallvors/blog/2008/11/12/how-google-docs-prints), and many others.

That's all for now... I might eventually write another blog post like this. Or a proper blog post :P :)

Until next time,  

 — Daniel
