Daniel15.Web/Posts/2010-07-18-my-life-with-ciera-so-far.md, before:

---
id: 294
title: My life with Ciera so far
published: true
publishedDate: 2010-07-18 04:25:31Z
lastModifiedDate: 2010-07-18 04:25:31Z
categories:
- Ciera
- Melbourne

---

So as you'd already know, Ciera [came back to Australia three weeks ago](http://dan.cx/blog/2010/07/cieras-here/), which is why I haven't really been on messenger much recently :P. Things have been excellent so far, it's been really enjoyable. Last week, we made some [delicious rainbow cookies](http://dan.cx/blog/2010/07/rainbow-cookies/). They were pretty much just plain lemon cookies based on a recipe from a $4 book we bought at Go-Lo, WITH A DIFFERENCE! We made them awesome by colouring them all different colours (and even made some multi-colour, which was my idea :D). They were delicious **and** colourful and made with 100% awesomesauce. Next time we make some, we'll make them all rainbow I think xD.

Yesterday (Saturday), we went to [Scienceworks](http://museumvictoria.com.au/scienceworks/), which is a science museum here in Melbourne. Well, we got there eventually. We had a few minor issues along the way. Firstly, we got off at Parliament Train Station (as the Metlink journey planner said to), and the platform that the train we needed usually comes to was closed, and there was a notice to go to Southern Cross Station. So, we went back to the platform we came from, and caught another train to Southern Cross. When we got to Southern Cross, the train took aaaages to come (then again, it's the Weribee line so it's kinda expected I guess :P). And then there was another complication — The train terminated at Footscray and we had to take a replacement bus the rest of the way. However, once we caught that bus, we finally got there. Entry is free if you're a student, so that's definitely a bonus.

While I've been to Scienceworks before, it was a long long time ago and I couldn't remember much of it. This time around it was pretty good and I found it quite interesting.  They had a toy exhibit, which was **awesome**! They had a roller coaster made out of [K'Nex](http://www.knex.com/) which was very nice. I want one!! Get me one please? I'm such a child at times, I don't think that'll ever change :D. Anyways, there was also other exhibits like a flight simulator, a kitchen thingy and a nice fire show (with demonstrations, Aaron would have loved it xD). There's also a planetarium there, but we didn't go this time (maybe we'll go next time). And we also went to the store there, and bought some glow-in-the-dark stars (which we stuck all over the roof in our room :D). All in all, it was a very fun day, I really enjoyed it! Was definitely worth the $0 entry to Scienceworks, hahaha :P.

As for work, things are going very good. Since I just passed the six month mark for my IBL placement, I moved from the technical support team at work into one of the development teams. We've been working on improving our products by making commonly-requested upgrades. When clients would like functionality that is currently not available in our system, their request goes onto a wishlist. My team went through the wishlist, rated all the items based on priority, and started working on them. In just two weeks, we've completed heaps, and a few people are very happy :D! I've also been doing a few other things, it's been quite good. I really enjoy my job! Also since it's about the half way mark now, my mid-placement report is nearly due. I've nearly finished it, just have to confirm that it's alright, and show it to my supervisor and see if he thinks it's alright.

So it's the start of another week tomorrow. I really miss Ciera during the day while I'm at work, but it's awesome coming home to her! Really makes me happy and makes everything I do worth it. <3

Until next time,  

 — Daniel

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2010-07-18-my-life-with-ciera-so-far.md, after:

---
id: 294
title: My life with Ciera so far
published: true
publishedDate: 2010-07-18 04:25:31Z
lastModifiedDate: 2010-07-18 04:25:31Z
categories:
- Ciera
- Melbourne

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2010/07/my-life-with-ciera-so-far

---

So as you'd already know, Ciera [came back to Australia three weeks ago](http://dan.cx/blog/2010/07/cieras-here/), which is why I haven't really been on messenger much recently :P. Things have been excellent so far, it's been really enjoyable. Last week, we made some [delicious rainbow cookies](http://dan.cx/blog/2010/07/rainbow-cookies/). They were pretty much just plain lemon cookies based on a recipe from a $4 book we bought at Go-Lo, WITH A DIFFERENCE! We made them awesome by colouring them all different colours (and even made some multi-colour, which was my idea :D). They were delicious **and** colourful and made with 100% awesomesauce. Next time we make some, we'll make them all rainbow I think xD.

Yesterday (Saturday), we went to [Scienceworks](http://museumvictoria.com.au/scienceworks/), which is a science museum here in Melbourne. Well, we got there eventually. We had a few minor issues along the way. Firstly, we got off at Parliament Train Station (as the Metlink journey planner said to), and the platform that the train we needed usually comes to was closed, and there was a notice to go to Southern Cross Station. So, we went back to the platform we came from, and caught another train to Southern Cross. When we got to Southern Cross, the train took aaaages to come (then again, it's the Weribee line so it's kinda expected I guess :P). And then there was another complication — The train terminated at Footscray and we had to take a replacement bus the rest of the way. However, once we caught that bus, we finally got there. Entry is free if you're a student, so that's definitely a bonus.

While I've been to Scienceworks before, it was a long long time ago and I couldn't remember much of it. This time around it was pretty good and I found it quite interesting.  They had a toy exhibit, which was **awesome**! They had a roller coaster made out of [K'Nex](http://www.knex.com/) which was very nice. I want one!! Get me one please? I'm such a child at times, I don't think that'll ever change :D. Anyways, there was also other exhibits like a flight simulator, a kitchen thingy and a nice fire show (with demonstrations, Aaron would have loved it xD). There's also a planetarium there, but we didn't go this time (maybe we'll go next time). And we also went to the store there, and bought some glow-in-the-dark stars (which we stuck all over the roof in our room :D). All in all, it was a very fun day, I really enjoyed it! Was definitely worth the $0 entry to Scienceworks, hahaha :P.

As for work, things are going very good. Since I just passed the six month mark for my IBL placement, I moved from the technical support team at work into one of the development teams. We've been working on improving our products by making commonly-requested upgrades. When clients would like functionality that is currently not available in our system, their request goes onto a wishlist. My team went through the wishlist, rated all the items based on priority, and started working on them. In just two weeks, we've completed heaps, and a few people are very happy :D! I've also been doing a few other things, it's been quite good. I really enjoy my job! Also since it's about the half way mark now, my mid-placement report is nearly due. I've nearly finished it, just have to confirm that it's alright, and show it to my supervisor and see if he thinks it's alright.

So it's the start of another week tomorrow. I really miss Ciera during the day while I'm at work, but it's awesome coming home to her! Really makes me happy and makes everything I do worth it. <3

Until next time,  

 — Daniel
