Daniel15.Web/Posts/2010-07-03-cieras-here.md, before:

---
id: 281
title: Ciera's here!
published: true
publishedDate: 2010-07-03 02:28:02Z
lastModifiedDate: 2010-07-03 02:28:02Z
categories:
- Ciera
- Long Distance Relationships
- Relationships

---

So, my girlfriend Ciera came back to Melbourne last Saturday (26th June 2010)! We've been having a **great** time so far, I'm so very glad to see her again! I honestly don't think I would have been able to wait much longer, so I'm extremely happy that she came her when she did. It's been a week since she got here, and things have already been so amazing! I think she's been enjoying it here heaps (I know she loves it in Australia), and I've certainly enjoyed it. Today we just did a bit of shopping, nothing too big. Bought a bookshelf to put all our books and stuff on :P

I can't wait for what the future is going to bring us!

[![Ciera and me!](http://dan.cx/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/07/GEDC0549-600x450.jpg){title="Ciera and me" width=600 height=450 class="size-medium wp-image-283"}](http://dan.cx/blog/2010/07/cieras-here/ge-digital-camera/){rel="attachment wp-att-283"}

Until next time,  

 — Daniel

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2010-07-03-cieras-here.md, after:

---
id: 281
title: Ciera's here!
published: true
publishedDate: 2010-07-03 02:28:02Z
lastModifiedDate: 2010-07-03 02:28:02Z
categories:
- Ciera
- Long Distance Relationships
- Relationships

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2010/07/cieras-here

---

So, my girlfriend Ciera came back to Melbourne last Saturday (26th June 2010)! We've been having a **great** time so far, I'm so very glad to see her again! I honestly don't think I would have been able to wait much longer, so I'm extremely happy that she came her when she did. It's been a week since she got here, and things have already been so amazing! I think she's been enjoying it here heaps (I know she loves it in Australia), and I've certainly enjoyed it. Today we just did a bit of shopping, nothing too big. Bought a bookshelf to put all our books and stuff on :P

I can't wait for what the future is going to bring us!

[![Ciera and me!](http://dan.cx/blog/wp-content/uploads/2010/07/GEDC0549-600x450.jpg){title="Ciera and me" width=600 height=450 class="size-medium wp-image-283"}](http://dan.cx/blog/2010/07/cieras-here/ge-digital-camera/){rel="attachment wp-att-283"}

Until next time,  

 — Daniel
