Daniel15.Web/Posts/2011-10-13-surrounded-by-ugly-html.md, before:

---
id: 332
title: Surrounded by ugly HTML
published: true
publishedDate: 2011-10-13 01:26:00Z
lastModifiedDate: 2011-10-13 01:26:00Z
categories:
- Web Development
- Programming

---

Am I the only person that cringes when I see HTML like this?

```html
<div class="h1Title"><div class="spriteicon_img_mini" id="icon-name_mini"></div>Page Title</div>
```
Or like this?

```html
<!--Start Footer-->
<div id="heading-bottom_bg" class="spriteheading_bg footer">
	<ul class="links footer_ul">
		<li class="footer_li"><a class="footer_li_a bottomlink" href="../index.html">Home</a></li>
		<li class="footer_li"><span class="footer" style="font-size:18px;">&#9642;</span></li>
		...
		<li class="footer_li"><a class="footer_li_a bottomlink" href="/logout/">Log out</a></li>
	</ul>
</div>
```
Notice the classes on all those elements. Really? A web developer that doesn't know about the <h1> tag or CSS descendant/child selectors? Why do people feel the need to use <div> tags for everything, when there's other more semantic tags available? It really doesn't make sense to me; some of the first HTML tags I learnt were <h1> and <p>.

For what it's worth, this is how I'd rewrite those two blocks of HTML:

```html
<h1 class="icon-name">Page Title</h1>
```
```html
<!--Start Footer-->
<div id="footer">
	<ul>
		<li><a href="../index.html">Home</a> &#9642;</li>
		...
		<li><a href="/logout/">Log out</a></li>
	</ul>
</div>
```

It's good to keep your HTML and CSS selectors as simple as possible. There's no need for a "footer_li" class when you can just use "#footer li" in your CSS. The "icon-name" CSS class on the <h1> is used for a CSS sprite to display next to the heading. Also, as an alternative, the separator (&#9642;) that was originally in a <span> after all the footer items can easily be added via the :after pseudo selector instead of being in the <li>. 

It's really frustrating that there's so many "web developers" that don't seem to know basic HTML. It's okay if you're just starting to learn, this is fair enough. The HTML I "wrote" when I started web development was horrendous. And by "wrote" I mean "created in FrontPage 98". But it's another thing altogether to be a developer for a number of years and still write ugly HTML like this.

Ugly JavaScript seems to be way more common, though. But that's a rant for another day.

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2011-10-13-surrounded-by-ugly-html.md, after:

---
id: 332
title: Surrounded by ugly HTML
published: true
publishedDate: 2011-10-13 01:26:00Z
lastModifiedDate: 2011-10-13 01:26:00Z
categories:
- Web Development
- Programming

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2011/10/surrounded-by-ugly-html

---

Am I the only person that cringes when I see HTML like this?

```html
<div class="h1Title"><div class="spriteicon_img_mini" id="icon-name_mini"></div>Page Title</div>
```
Or like this?

```html
<!--Start Footer-->
<div id="heading-bottom_bg" class="spriteheading_bg footer">
	<ul class="links footer_ul">
		<li class="footer_li"><a class="footer_li_a bottomlink" href="../index.html">Home</a></li>
		<li class="footer_li"><span class="footer" style="font-size:18px;">&#9642;</span></li>
		...
		<li class="footer_li"><a class="footer_li_a bottomlink" href="/logout/">Log out</a></li>
	</ul>
</div>
```
Notice the classes on all those elements. Really? A web developer that doesn't know about the <h1> tag or CSS descendant/child selectors? Why do people feel the need to use <div> tags for everything, when there's other more semantic tags available? It really doesn't make sense to me; some of the first HTML tags I learnt were <h1> and <p>.

For what it's worth, this is how I'd rewrite those two blocks of HTML:

```html
<h1 class="icon-name">Page Title</h1>
```
```html
<!--Start Footer-->
<div id="footer">
	<ul>
		<li><a href="../index.html">Home</a> &#9642;</li>
		...
		<li><a href="/logout/">Log out</a></li>
	</ul>
</div>
```

It's good to keep your HTML and CSS selectors as simple as possible. There's no need for a "footer_li" class when you can just use "#footer li" in your CSS. The "icon-name" CSS class on the <h1> is used for a CSS sprite to display next to the heading. Also, as an alternative, the separator (&#9642;) that was originally in a <span> after all the footer items can easily be added via the :after pseudo selector instead of being in the <li>. 

It's really frustrating that there's so many "web developers" that don't seem to know basic HTML. It's okay if you're just starting to learn, this is fair enough. The HTML I "wrote" when I started web development was horrendous. And by "wrote" I mean "created in FrontPage 98". But it's another thing altogether to be a developer for a number of years and still write ugly HTML like this.

Ugly JavaScript seems to be way more common, though. But that's a rant for another day.
