Daniel15.Web/Posts/2011-05-15-new-blog-system.md, before:

---
id: 330
title: New blog system!
published: true
publishedDate: 2011-05-15 00:37:00Z
lastModifiedDate: 2011-05-15 00:37:00Z
categories:
- Website
- PHP

---

I was rewriting my site recently (to use the [Kohana framework](http://kohanaframework.org/) instead of WordPress), and I decided to write my own blog system at the same time. Finally, I've finished a basic version of it, and it's now live! This site is running on it, so hopefully there's no major issues! I do still love WordPress, but as a developer, it's often fun to create your own stuff (you know exactly what the code is doing, and it does exactly what you want). The code for this whole website is now [available on Github](https://github.com/Daniel15/Website), maybe some of you would find it interesting (especially if you're doing something similar yourself). Still a bit rough around the edges, but it's working fine. I've still got a bit I'd like to do with the blog (like improving the administration section). :)

My old blog used to have a "microblog" section where I'd occassionally post photos and stuff. I've moved all that onto a [Tumblr](http://thoughts.dan.cx/) account, although now I'm thinking I should have used Posterous instead. Tumblr's uptime seems quite bad. I really don't understand why it's so popular... It seems like it's mainly the community rather than the site itself.

Eventually I might even post a proper blog article to here. Or to [my other blog with my girlfriend](http://storyofarelationship.com/) :)

Until then,  

— Daniel

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2011-05-15-new-blog-system.md, after:

---
id: 330
title: New blog system!
published: true
publishedDate: 2011-05-15 00:37:00Z
lastModifiedDate: 2011-05-15 00:37:00Z
categories:
- Website
- PHP

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2011/05/new-blog-system

---

I was rewriting my site recently (to use the [Kohana framework](http://kohanaframework.org/) instead of WordPress), and I decided to write my own blog system at the same time. Finally, I've finished a basic version of it, and it's now live! This site is running on it, so hopefully there's no major issues! I do still love WordPress, but as a developer, it's often fun to create your own stuff (you know exactly what the code is doing, and it does exactly what you want). The code for this whole website is now [available on Github](https://github.com/Daniel15/Website), maybe some of you would find it interesting (especially if you're doing something similar yourself). Still a bit rough around the edges, but it's working fine. I've still got a bit I'd like to do with the blog (like improving the administration section). :)

My old blog used to have a "microblog" section where I'd occassionally post photos and stuff. I've moved all that onto a [Tumblr](http://thoughts.dan.cx/) account, although now I'm thinking I should have used Posterous instead. Tumblr's uptime seems quite bad. I really don't understand why it's so popular... It seems like it's mainly the community rather than the site itself.

Eventually I might even post a proper blog article to here. Or to [my other blog with my girlfriend](http://storyofarelationship.com/) :)

Until then,  

— Daniel
