Daniel15.Web/Posts/2013-04-14-mystatus.md, before:

---
id: 338
title: 'MyStatus: Share your Google Talk / Jabber status - Now live'
published: true
publishedDate: 2013-04-14 00:15:50Z
lastModifiedDate: 2013-04-14 00:15:50Z
categories:
- MyStatus
- Programming
- Projects

---

Google used to offer some little widgets that you could embed on your site which would show if you were online or offline in Google Talk, and let people start a conversation directly from the web page. I used to scrape the HTML and grab my status from there to display it on my site. Unfortunately they deprecated them last year and pulled the service offline recently.

I thought it'd be useful and couldn't find anything similar so I started a site that would provide similar functionality. Currently it can show an online/offline icon, and provide the data in JSON format. I'm going to add some more functionality and make it more user-friendly as I get time to.

Here's a screenshot of how I display it on my site:   

![Screenshot of MyStatus information](http://ss.dan.cx/2013/03/09-00.56.56.png)

Here's the URL: http://mystatus.im/

Technologies I'm using are Node.js, Express, Sequelize, and node-xmpp. This is my first live Node.js site.

Let me know what you think!

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2013-04-14-mystatus.md, after:

---
id: 338
title: 'MyStatus: Share your Google Talk / Jabber status - Now live'
published: true
publishedDate: 2013-04-14 00:15:50Z
lastModifiedDate: 2013-04-14 00:15:50Z
categories:
- MyStatus
- Programming
- Projects

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2013/04/mystatus

---

Google used to offer some little widgets that you could embed on your site which would show if you were online or offline in Google Talk, and let people start a conversation directly from the web page. I used to scrape the HTML and grab my status from there to display it on my site. Unfortunately they deprecated them last year and pulled the service offline recently.

I thought it'd be useful and couldn't find anything similar so I started a site that would provide similar functionality. Currently it can show an online/offline icon, and provide the data in JSON format. I'm going to add some more functionality and make it more user-friendly as I get time to.

Here's a screenshot of how I display it on my site:   

![Screenshot of MyStatus information](http://ss.dan.cx/2013/03/09-00.56.56.png)

Here's the URL: http://mystatus.im/

Technologies I'm using are Node.js, Express, Sequelize, and node-xmpp. This is my first live Node.js site.

Let me know what you think!
