Daniel15.Web/Posts/2017-08-26-performing-dns-requests-from-google-docs.md, before:

---
id: 346
title: Performing DNS requests from Google Docs
published: true
publishedDate: 2017-08-26 15:09:29Z
lastModifiedDate: 2017-08-26 15:09:29Z
categories:
- Web Development

---

I use a Google Docs spreadsheet to manage all my domains. It contains a list of all the domain names I own, along with their expiry dates, the name of the registrar the domain is registered with, and some other details. I also wanted to also add a column showing the nameservers, so I could tell which domains were parked vs which domains I'm actively using.

Google Apps Script provides a [URLFetchApp.fetch](https://developers.google.com/apps-script/reference/url-fetch/url-fetch-app){rel=nofollow} function to perform network requests. We can combine this with Google's [DNS-over-HTTPS API](https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns/docs/dns-over-https){rel=nofollow} to load DNS records for a given domain:

```javascript
function GetDNSEntries(domain, type) {
  var response = UrlFetchApp.fetch('https://dns.google.com/resolve?name=' + domain + '&type=' + type);
  var data = JSON.parse(response);
  
  var results = data.Answer.map(function(answer) {
    // Remove trailing dot from answer
    return answer.data.replace(/\.$/, '');
  });
  return results.sort().join(', ');
}
```

We can then use this function in a spreadsheet:

```javascript
=GetDNSEntries(A1, "NS")
```

This results in a column listing the DNS servers for each domain, with data that's always kept up-to-date by Google Docs:

![](https://dan.cx/blog-content/2017/dns-google-docs.png)

Commit message:

Add attribution to Markdown posts
This is so someone viewing the raw Markdown will know the proper URL for the blog post, as GitHub doesn't support all the Markdown features it's using.

Daniel15.Web/Posts/2017-08-26-performing-dns-requests-from-google-docs.md, after:

---
id: 346
title: Performing DNS requests from Google Docs
published: true
publishedDate: 2017-08-26 15:09:29Z
lastModifiedDate: 2017-08-26 15:09:29Z
categories:
- Web Development

---

# This post is originally from Daniel15's Blog at https://d.sb/2017/08/performing-dns-requests-from-google-docs

---

I use a Google Docs spreadsheet to manage all my domains. It contains a list of all the domain names I own, along with their expiry dates, the name of the registrar the domain is registered with, and some other details. I also wanted to also add a column showing the nameservers, so I could tell which domains were parked vs which domains I'm actively using.

Google Apps Script provides a [URLFetchApp.fetch](https://developers.google.com/apps-script/reference/url-fetch/url-fetch-app){rel=nofollow} function to perform network requests. We can combine this with Google's [DNS-over-HTTPS API](https://developers.google.com/speed/public-dns/docs/dns-over-https){rel=nofollow} to load DNS records for a given domain:

```javascript
function GetDNSEntries(domain, type) {
  var response = UrlFetchApp.fetch('https://dns.google.com/resolve?name=' + domain + '&type=' + type);
  var data = JSON.parse(response);
  
  var results = data.Answer.map(function(answer) {
    // Remove trailing dot from answer
    return answer.data.replace(/\.$/, '');
  });
  return results.sort().join(', ');
}
```

We can then use this function in a spreadsheet:

```javascript
=GetDNSEntries(A1, "NS")
```

This results in a column listing the DNS servers for each domain, with data that's always kept up-to-date by Google Docs:

![](https://dan.cx/blog-content/2017/dns-google-docs.png)
